Stopping Time as I can gain advantages in everyday life. I chose this superpower as it was referred to one of my favorite animes called JoJo's Bizzare Adventures where the series is based on the villians stands (personas technically) is around the concept of time including stopping time, going back in time, accelerating time and foreshadowing time. This is a really cool anime as the superpowers are animated really well and the art is similar to another one of my favorite animes. I usually want this ability to stop time in order to do stuff that no one else can. I can easily pass my tests/exams by stopping time and gaining the answers in the timeframe without getting caught. I can also use this ability to get out of sticky situations that are dangerous and help my family/friends if they are also in a dangerous situation like armed robbery or right before a car crash so I can take them out of the scene before the collision. I would suggest this superpower to anyone that wants to gain an advantages in life.

If going back like 10 years would be an "era", I would choose that to re-live the good things that happened before COVID-19 and my childhood, otherwise I would go back to the medieval era. The medieval era is very interesting because most of the population is split onto two groups: the peasants and the wealthy. The knights are also interesting as they are royal to the king/queen and have a very wealthy lifestyle. The dining halls are also interesting as they dont use utensils and use only their hands to eat. I got inspired by this idea on my past experiences when I was in middle school and we had a medieval party where there is a lot of food like chicken on the desks and we all ate the chicken with our bare hands which is very messy and sticky.

I have two morning routines that I do.
My weekday morning routine are as follows:
Try to wake up on time at 7:00 AM.
Fail to wake up and continue sleeping.
Have two alarm clocks ringing at different times to successfully wake me up.
Go to the Bathroom
Change my clothes
Brush Teeth
Sit on my bed and wait for Alvin
Go to School

My weekend morning routine are as follows:
Try to wake up on time at 5:30 AM.
Fail to wake up and continue sleeping.
Have two alarm clocks ringing at different times to successfully wake me up.
Go to the Bathroom.
Change my clothes.
Brush Teeth.
Drive my way to Taco Bell.
Regret my life decisions on why I work at 6AM in the morning.
Regret my life decisions on why I work at Taco Bell in general.
Work.

If I could talk to animals, I would chat with a dog. I would ask the dog on how it feels about asians. I know it sounds weird but I feel like the dog would be concerned as asians are known for eating different kinds of food like DOGS. I would ask about their past experiences and their personal thoughts on how they realized that asians eats DOGS and their opinion about them. I would also ask on how their escape plan when they get caught by an asian and ends up on the crockpot with vegetables and his best friend Larry. 

This is on Sunday, I had my shift at 6AM-5AM which is an 11 hour shift and my coworkers and 
I decided to play christmas music near the end of my shift and my coworker was jamming so hard that he slapped the wall very hard and made the clock on the wall fall off and shatter on the floor. My co worker and I were very surprised that my other co worker broke the clock and tried to put it on the wall again when it was still broken. I fell off again and it was completely broken after that.

1. Buy an expensive car and house.
2. Give friends money to help them with finances or needs.
3. Buy my tuition and future tuition as well
Extra: Buy Riot Points for League of Legends or Valorant, or Vbucks for Fortnite