wake up at 7am mst take a shower then get ready while getting ready i check the weather to see if it is snowing or lower than freezing temperatures. at 7.45 i start the truck and wait about 5 minutes before i start to leave so that it can warm up

today I worked abou t7 hours at my accounting job doing an expense analysis of a small college rural health program. the most interesting thing is finding out peoples addresss from where they ship things to and how that may or may not be within university policy. my next project is to audit a studetn center based on USHE reulatory policies and other school lovel policies.

I really like to watch bobs burgers, it is a very mundane show that i can put on in the background and have little joks come out while doing something else. this may be connected to my low attention span since i need multiple form of media to stay focused. since this is an issue i tend to put this show on while i am cooking or working.

the first things things i would do are to buy another truck so that it is more fitted so snow usage or other inclement weather. I would also buy property and land and a north western state so taht I could live up there after finishing my degree. this would combat rising house prices since i am able to fully buy something and have nothing compared to a monthly payment. the last thing i would do is pay off the rest of my familys current bills so that they would be able to live a little more more free and less stressed. 

a memorable childhood story is hard to find since most of it is blacked out in my mind. but one thing i can remember is receing my first atv in middle school. although i didnt use it i could say that i owned one. if i still had it today i would be using it to hunt and go outdoors where i live.

if i had a superpower it would be celetisl manipulation so that i can changfe space and time at my will. i would be able to create and destory things without limits. it would offer me total power to do anything i needed to do. It can easily be concealed and hidden from the general public since it would not require flamboyant rituals or summoning. it would offer me power that can be used to help in daily life and have some convience.

wake up at 7am mst take a shower then get ready while getting ready i check the weather to see if it is snowing or lower than freezing temperatures. at 7.45 i start the truck and wait about 5 minutes before i start to leave so that it can warm up then i drive to work that is about 10 minutes away and arrive at about 8am

my favorite movie is the accountant starring ben affleck since it is constantly enanging and has multiple out of life scenarios that leave people on edge. it stars ben affleck as an autistic accountant who is hired to find discrepancies within an agency that is hiding that they are stealing from themselves. ben affleck movies are always either super violent or somehow romcoms.

i have not tried any current trends. they trends seem to be dangerous and/or stupid that serve no purpose in life. most of these trends come from tiktok or instagram that serve to encapsulate simple minded people into hurting themselves.

If i could only have one meal for the rest of my life i would have steak. since that is much of what i already do. when  you are on a carnivore diet the majority of my meals are animal products or straight meat cooked in butter. it can be cooked in a few ways to give variety but it offers the most nutrional value.

i would visit the 1920s to view what the roaring 20s were like. this would offer me a glimpse into what life was previously like. america would still be modern ish but allow me to experience things at lower prices and what parties were like back then. 

the best vacation i have been on was my trip to hawaii where i was able to surf and be close to the beach. the water was very cold but it was so humid it equalized. this trip was special since it was my only trip off the mainland. i got to experience more of what america is like off of the convential life on land. mexico couldnt comparesince it tended to be dirtier than hawaii when we were in the cities. but both had their fair share of homelessness.

i would want to talk to a black bear. i would ask them about how bait piles entice them so much or how bears usually migrate through the forest. the hardest part would be finding the bear to talk to. I could also ask them about how human food tastes compared to deer or other meat that they find within the forest. this would give me more insight on the mechanics behind the forest ecosystem and why they tend to be so far from everything. 

I decided what to have for dinner by making it days prior. i ahve a standing freezer that i store all of my various cuts of meat or ground in and pick left to right when i run out of food. 

a pet peeve i have in my daily life is unprotected left turns. in my area there are not solid green arrow left turns and all intersections have a yeild yellow arrow. this tends to cause traffic buildups since people are not aggressive enough to take turns. so it cause me to allot additional time to drive to places that are extremely close to me since i may or may not get caught at a light.