My day has been uneventful. Just woke up a bit ago but have not really done much. I'm planning on doing more studying, but I don't really have any other plans for the day honestly. Maybe sleeping a bit more, but I don't know.

If I won the lottery tomorrow, the first three things I would do would be to pay off my debt, invest some of it into my future, and then spend the rest on trying to stablize my financial situation. Currently not sure if I can go to college still for next year, so this would help a ton.

Honestly legitimate teleportation would be pretty cool. Just being able to be anywhere at any time would be really nice. Probably not possible, but its a cool thought at least.

My morning routine is the fact I lack a morning routine. I usually just wake up at some random time, and thats about it. of course I do all the basic hygiene stuff, like shower and all, but beyond that, nothing is set in stone for me.

For a current trend I will use TikTok as an example, which I have never touched in my life. I refuse to touch TikTok mostly because its cringe, but also because it is honestly addicting, and would not really be beneficial to my life.

Honestly anyhing from Roberto's hands down. Really good food there, especially when it is like 3am in the morning, and you have are stressed due to some school thing. To be specific, probably Carne Asada fries or something similar.

Honestly would visit the era where cavemen first showed up. Being able to see what stuff was like back then would honestly be really cool.

If I could talk to animals, the first one I would talk to would be a raccoon (for obvious reasons), and I would probably just ask how its day is going.

Honestly whatever I can find becomes my dinner. Sometimes its some random combination from my fridge, other times its some take out or ubereats. Rarely i will actually plan out my dinner though.

Pet peeve of my daily life is when people ask me lazy questions. its one thing not to know something which is perfectly ok, but its another thing to ask legitimately lazy questions that would instantly be answered by google. There are no dumb questions, but there sure are lazy ones.
