I woke up and had coffee. Afterwards, I had rice noodles with vegetables and chicken. After eating, I got ready for work. Most interesting that happened today was seeing two antibiotics written for an infant. The prescriptions were written for Bactrim and Clindamycin. Upon conversing with the father, these antibiotics were prescribed for animal bites. This reminds me that Clindamycin is helpful in inactivating toxins from Streptococcus. 

I think the K-pop idol group ‘New Jeans’ fills a certain niche in today’s music scene. Their lyrics are repetitive and easy on the ears. This is why not only the Korean public has taken a liking to their music but also the western audience as well. Their music is energetic and repetitive to the ears. So much so, that it is easy to hum or murmur the lyrics whenever you hear the song playing in the background. 

First thing I would do is to find a lawyer and figure out how to cash out the lottery. Once the money is in a safe bank account, I would aside a portion to completely pay off my student loans. My student loans are hefty! Second thing I would do is to buy a house while before the prices continue to rise.

There was a camping field trip I went on in fifth grade. The location was called ‘Sierra Nevada Journeys”. From memory, I believe I had to pay around $200 to stay for a week at the camp. It was my first time spending time away from family so long. I remember the food there was great. I really enjoyed the bacon, scrambled eggs, and cinnamon roll. I felt at home with nature because of all the trees, waters, and greenery. Good vibes only. 

If I had a superpower, I would want it to be teleportation. I can go wherever I want for free and at the blink of an eye. No driving and no flying needed. Save money. Live better. I can also escape if I am ever chased by bad guys or get myself out of a sticky situation. 

My alarm goes off and I turn it off. Then five minutes later it rings again, and I turn it off. I have like 30-40 alarm clocks set on my phone. I turn half of them off when I wake it. It takes me about 15-20 minutes to wake up in the morning. Then I write about 3/4 of a water bottle to hydrate myself. Usually the hydration helps me wake up. Then I make coffee. Sometimes I eat breakfast, and sometimes I don’t. But I need my two spoonfuls of coffee to wake up. After getting caffeinated, I would get ready and pack my lunch before going to rotation. 

One of my current favorite songs is ‘Outside Mountains’ by Zhang Yuan. This song is from the Chinese drama ‘Mysterious Lotus Casebook’. I think this song accentuates the theme of the drama that is set in the Wuxia world. This song is Wuxia heavy with its use of the flute and drums. Zhang Yuan’s voice suits the genre well into painting an inspiring Wuxia world.

The candy ‘Nik Lips’ was trending on asmr and mukbang channels awhile back. Something about chewing on wax bottles filled with candied juice speaks to me. Maybe the Youtubers made it look too good? When I saw the candy at ‘Five Below’ while shopping, I knew I had to get a back. I went home and helped myself to the whole pack. It was disappointing. The candied syrup that fills the middle of the wax had a sickening sweet taste that was artificial. I still finished the whole pack though. 

I would want it to be ramen noodles. Noodles are paired with chicken, seafood, and vegetables. The seafood includes mussels, crab legs, and octopus. Vegetables include kimchi, bokchoy, and tofu. I think this meal includes much of the needed nutrition for us. A fried egg on top would be cherry on top!

If I am time-traveling, I would want to visit early Ming dynasty. Particularly, during the Hong Wu to Yong Le era. I am particularly curious to learn about Hong Wu’s reign where greedy magistrates are persecuted and beheaded for their greediness. It brings up good conversations and debates about human greed. Secondly, I am curious to learn about Yong Le era. Yong Le emperor made a quote about how the emperor is to guard the country’s door till death. Something about early Ming dynasty being strong before it crumbled due to several bad emperor successions speaks to me. 

The best vacation I had been on so far in the my life is my trip to California with my classmates. I went with two of my classmates. We booked 2 hotel tickets for 2 nights. Our third classmate joined us last minute, so we sneaked her into our room. The inn was small but fairly clean. Our main destination was Knotts Berry Farm. I ate a lot of Boysenberry cookies and bought keychains. We also went to the beach before driving back to see our upperclassmen’s graduation. I think it was special to go on a girls trip to California. 

A pet peeve of mine in daily life is that I hate it when people talk over others. It irks me when the professor is talking and some classmates decides to have side conversations. I cannot concentrate, and I find it disrespectful. Another application is when customers talk over me. I would be trying to explain situation “A” and then the customer speaks over me and says “No” or whatever. It is rather rude to stop someone when they are trying to the help you. We should let the speaker finish what they have to say first before talking. 

