my day has been stressful as crap. the most interesting thing that happened was me being able to relax and enjoy a youtube video. Youtube videos are things I hold precious to me these days. They brighten my day and are essential to my mood and activities in order for me to stay sane. Without them my day would have been even worse.

my take on the newest spiderman movie was that it was the best movie released this year and deserves the hype. I tend to rather lean towards “overrated” things, but I truly believe it deserves the praise and popularity that was granted towards it. I believe the sequel for this movie will live up the series’ standards

I would pay off my parents debt, go on a shopping spree, have a big gathering with friends and family. I have many reasons for each and based on the day my answer to this question could realistically change. I’ve always been into shopping and a shopping spree was something I always wished I had the money for. Debt is a big problem for my parents (mainly my dad) and I would like to help solve my loved one’s problems. Lastly, I hold my close friends and family close to my heart and think they all deserve the world so a big party to treat them all would be nice.

sadly a memorable childhood story that comes to mind is kindergarden when i fell on the playground a broke many bones and ended up injured for a bit. I’ve noticed that I seem to remember mainly bad memories these days. It’s a problem I’ve been trying to resolve and learn about since it is quite the plan to deal with and wish I wouldn’t think that way to be completely honest. It takes a lot more effort for me to relive and rethink positive memories which is just sad to think of.

my morning routine is getting up, eating breakfast while watching youtube, showering, brushing teeth, and getting ready to plan my day. My days aren’t really as consistent and structured as I like it to be. However, I do think my routine is nearly optimal since I do tend to get a lot of stuff done when I put my drive and determination into something. Mindset is everything to me and once I better my mindset I think I will see an improvement in my routine.

my favorite song at the moment is probably Colors Flying High because I’m addicted to Persona 5 Royal and it distracts me from life problems. In fact, the whole persona soundtrack in fantastic and could be one of my favorite albums/tracks ever. Music in general is one of the greatest things in life and cannot ever be replaced. I cannot state this enough to be honest.

i would eat my moms cooked pompano soup (it’s a fish soup with vegetables and tastes amazing and healthy, comes with rice of course). I love all kinds of foods to be honest though. As long as its edible I'll put it my mouth. Wait what did I just say that was crazy wow. I also really love chicken and anything to do with chicken.

The best vacation may have been my trip to Canada with my family because it was stress free and simpler times back then. I just love traveling and traveling abroad is nothing short of amazing. Traveling brings back so many amazing and unique memories that no other activity can replicate. One day I wish to go to Japan and Korea to explore what ever sights they have. I also really like Asian stuff in general to explain why I want to go.

I would chat to a fly to give them warnings to leave instead of killing them. I sometimes feel bad for killing flies so that's why I would like to give them a chance to survive since killing is bad for the soul. I enjoy a nice talk with humans but animals would be even better, I've always wanted a pet and imagine if I could talk to it! That would be crazy... Too bad that's never gonna happen.

A pet peeve would be making the same mistakes over and over again without learning. it’s something i struggle with and hate about myself sometimes. I don't really have that many pet peeves in life though. I think approaching life with an open mind and non-irritable view is best because it keeps your mentality in check and prevents you from tipping over