I had a good day today. One of the most intersting things that happened was how I make the most easiest mistakes in coding that takes me a good thirty minutes to fix.
I'm not sure if this is common for most, but it definitely has significant impact to how problems can vary in coding, especially if you're doing things in one go. Overall, my
day is going good so far, no matter how stressful it may be. However, I wish I can get some extensive help over a few assignments. Otherwise, I am still stressing quite a bit, no matter what.

My current take on a popular movie or tv show is the movie Avatar: The Way of Water having wasted potential. It is the sequel installment of my favorite movie, Avatar, and it speaks about the aftermath of Jake Sully's
rebellion against human colonization of the planet, Pandora. It expands on Jake's current life with his family and struggles against the return of humanity, and yet I felt as if the whole movie revolved around a few skirmishes of fights with
no major conflicts throughout the film, unlike the first film. The only major conflict was near the end, which I felt could've been more extended.

I would go on a cruise vacation with my family, this would be something that all of us have not gone before and it's a new experience worth checking out. Then, I would buy myself some plastic model kits and hobby tools, because I like
building model kits of varying types like historical battleships, planes, and even mechs, preferably Gundams. They help me understand model building and customization to which I can proudly display in my room. I could then buy a big house, which
would be ideal for me to live in with various amenities provided for me, like a cool swimming pool. However, having a big house means I would have much larger plans, to which I do not currently have alot as of now.

I went to an amazing place somewhere in Taiwan. Many historical statues and scenic view. One day, I almost fell into a small ravine.
Fortunately, it wasn't that deep, and I managed to go out safely. This worried my parents beyond belif, since I could've gravely injured myself or possibly have died.
It's unclear what happened, but I got severely reprimanded that day for doing something supposedly stupid. Although, it may have been because I tripped or something. In any case,
it was surely an experience to be had.

My current opinion on a current event with current dispute between Israel and the Hamas is that it is a horrible event that caused pain to many families. While many others
are very polarized on the opinions of each side, I for one feel that needless bloodshed has been spilled upon and that many innocent people are suffering the price of such. I hope
that this opinion of mine would be taken into big consideration, because the cost of peace often comes from the blood of those who would not have anything to do with the war. As such,
we should try to create a better understanding for everyone.

I would choose the power of teleportation, so that I would easily be able to get to places with but a thought. Not only that, there will be no case of which I will personally need a vehicle to get to places just
for myself, unless if there are various things I must carrying to which I would need one. However, getting to places would not be a big hindurance to me anymore. No more uber fares, just purely going to places through sheer
supernatural means. Also, I would use it to go and help others if necessary. I wouldn't be using it for purely selfish purposes. 

I wake up and go on my phone for a good 30 mins to an hour. Then, I dress up and brush my teeth and prepare to go to classes. Although, if I'm especially lazy, I would try to just stay in bed for an extended period
of time. Reason being I really don't want to do much at all. I would much rather just relax as much as I can, because school in my case is very stressful, and I wouldn't like it to take in too much stress at any given time.
Thus, I really want to go stay at someplace in my comfort zone. If need be, I would get up early for anything important to do, like going to certain events or working on projects with a group.

My favorite movie would be Avatar, no the last airbender, but the 2009 movie released by James Cameron. It featured new revolutionary techniques for filming and introduced a cool scifi theme between a highly advanced civilization and giant tree people.
The tree people would be known as the Navi, who purely wants to live in freedom from human colonization of the planet. The humans exploit the natural abundance that's exclusive to the planet called "Unobtanium". This is something that is worth a lot of
money and it's known to be a vital resource for the survival of Earth. Jake Sully, a former marine, is hired as peacekeeping force, then diplomat to the Navi people on behalf of human interests. However, this would quickly turn as he starts to learn the ways
of the Navi and begins to harbor feelings of dissent against his own race.

I have not tried a current trend in fear of doing something stupid. For any kind of experience I had seen with current trends, they often seem the most puerile kind. Like the Grimace Shake. Oh boy, you're gonna go exaggerated how
god damn toxic some shit is just because it's purple and have yourself doing it for clout. Like, what is the fucking point for this shit? Anyways, I digress, there is not a single thing I have done that has ever followed a current trend.

I would eat Fried Rice for the rest of my life because it's good if done right. Fried rice, to me, is like the holy grail of food in terms of food quality, proportions, and taste. You can put various
things to increase the flavor of it, but you can also try to increase the quality of the base ingredients with eggs and rice, adding it with diced green onions. Some additives can also be soy sauce, but to some
it can be a coarse flavor since the soy sauce is quite salty. However, fried rice can be done in various ways. Styles that contribute this could be in Shanghai for example. They have their own cultural recipe for fried rice, whereas
it's different in Japan. However, I won't get into too much details. 

I would visit the Cold War Era so that I may visit the Soviet Union. Some may ask why I would go to a supposedly horrible and dreary country to visit. That is because I'm doing it out of curiousity of seeing 
the Cold War Era on the side of the Russians. They have many technological innovations that time, especially from the space race. If I could see how that process began with my own eyes, it would be something extremely
pleasureable for me to witness. Then, I also would like to see the quality of life of everyday russians during that time. It could be bad as we're all made to believe, but it can also be eye opening to see how not everything could 
quite possibly be bad for better or worse.

I went to Taiwan in the year 2016. It would probably be the last vacation where all my family, and extended family, were visiting together.

I would like to talk to birds because it would be extremely useful to know my parrot's thoughts and intentions.

Depends on how hungry I am. Sometimes, when I'm not even hungry, I don't eat anything at all.

How I have to wake up every morning to the sounds of freeway traffic.