Today the most interesting thing that happened was that at work I was called 3 times by a person trying to activate their NSHE ID number.  On the first call I informed them that they should contact admissions and records to fix the potential issue.  When they called again they had not contacted A&R and they still had the same issue.  The 3rd time they called they failed their CAPTCHA which confused me because unless your are a bot how do you fail a CAPTCHA.

I really like the current TV Show Loki on Disney+.  Tom Hiddleston is an amazing actor and his portrayal of Loki was amazing.  I loved the ending of season 2 because it ends with Loki becoming trapped in Ygdrissil like he become in normal Norse Mythology.  The ending looked amazing and was super cool to see.

If I won the lottery tomorrow the first three things I would to eat breakfast or whatever meal.  Then I would call my parents and tell them that I won the lottery and ask them what I should do with the money I had just won.  Based on what they told me decided what I would do third, as I do not know what I would do with the lottery money.  I kinda have everything I could want or need so I don't really need the money.

In first grade on the first pitch i was up to bat in the final game of my baseball season my coach pitch the baseball and my pinkey became the middle of a sandwich between the baseball and the bat.  This caused my pinkey to break and for the pinkey nail to fall off of my finger in its entirety.  My nail now currently has ridge lines because of it.  

My morning routine consists of waking up and putting on my clothes for the day.  I then brush my teeth and start making my coffee.  Then I make my lunch for the day and start cooking waffles for breakfast.  After I have made everything I get in my car and drive to class/work for the day.

A pet peevee of mine that I see in my daily life is when people cannot organize their thoughts and therefore start saying, "umm" or "and" repeatadly.  When people start doing this in presentations I end up counting how many times they say those words and I feel my sanity slightly leave me.  This pet peeve bugs me a lot.

The best vacation I have ever been on is going to Montana in the summer.  We drive all the way from Las Vegas to Flat Head Lake in Montana.  This vacation is special because I get to hang out with my direct family and extended family in the outdoors for about a week.  It is super nice and cool.  We get to play volleyball with all of my family.  Playing volleyball each year is what led me to join Volleyball my freshman year in Highschool.  I then also joined a club volleyball team called Vegas Extreme.