Alvin Leung
WMST 101
7/14/2023
Reflection Notes 2
Not Murdered, Not Missing: Rebelling against Colonial Gender Violence by Leanne Simpson
Leanne Simpson’s “Not Murdered, Not Missing: Rebelling against Colonial Gender Violence” explains how indigenous gender structures and societies were torn apart by western influence and social globalization. I think what speaks to me particularly from the piece is the racial strata that comes from feminism. White feminism is very different from indigenous feminism. While they are both advocating for women’s rights, their differences in histories changes their specific wants from the movements. White feminists want to break away from the western stereotype of women: homemakers, submission to men, and loss of dignity. On the other hand, indigenous feminists want to reclaim their culture above all else: reclamation of their societal norms such as gender fluidity, autonomy of the land, and prevention of indigenous violence. Before western influence, indigenous communities operated both effectively and liberally. In fact, indigenous people were so productive that they had so much free time throughout the day. However, western ideals were both rigid and restrictive. By instilling a binary gender system in a gender-fluid society, people were not able to express their unique selves. This hurt their societal structure as more and more people were outcasted. These were tactics that the west employed to dismantle the societal culture and weaken indigenous influence. It is very sinister to have this subtle kind of plan of attack on another society. It is unlike war, which is obvious. To dismantle a society by getting rid of their culture is vehement. The fact that the perpetrators were authoritative figures makes this a very difficult issue to solve and reverse. However, if we take what we know on social movements, it is very possible to reverse the damage. We must also be discrete in order to reverse the movements. By orchestrating movements within society rather than through the state, we can attack authority as subtly as they would against a rebellion. It is a very interesting contrasting yet similar dynamic.






































Quotes:
“I don’t want to have to seek out allies in white feminists, who don’t really get it. I want Indigenous men to have my back, even when they feel uncomfortable about what I am saying.(Simpson)”


I think this quote is very interesting. White feminists hold ideals that are kind of “first world”. Their beliefs, while just and valid, are some of the most bare minimum desires that more marginalized women want. For example, Chinese feminists have it even harder dealing with the Chinese government than the US government. It could seem in a way disrespectful toward the Chinese feminists that US feminists complain so much. This is not to say that US feminists have it wrong, but that they have it easier. It is an interesting, contrarian point that Simpson makes in her work. I did not think about it like this.


“Strong communities are born out of individuals being their best selves (Simpson).”


This quote is also very interesting. Being the best self to perform the best is an obvious perspective. However, I never thought of it in the context of gender as well. You obviously cannot function properly if you are conscious of your gender all the time, which will hinder your personal development and social development. This can lead to a cascading of issues from ostracization to even joblessness. We only normally see people “being their best selves” as choosing a job fitting their talents or doing something they enjoy, not exactly like being the gender you wanted. However, it is obvious since this would be used in the context of love like loving the people you want rather than the people you are supposed to love.


“We need our own alternative systems in place to deal with sexual assault at the community level, systems that are based on our traditions and do not involve state police and the state legal system (Simpson).”


It is an interesting way to turn the methods of attack by the state against the state. The state and authorities instilled a sense of order in society through propaganda, schools, and influence. This caused a society that desired to be governed by those same ideas. Similar to the quote of controlling the mind and the body will soon follow. In this case, the mind is the government and the body is the people. However, if the body refuses the mind’s decisions, then the mind will eventually have to yield to the desires and needs of the body. If we push for community-level governance and social movements, we can change the government and society at the same time, healing our bodies.