Alvin Leung
Dr. Dennis Dworkin
CH 202
08 February 2022
Of Civilized Characters
Michel de Montaigne was a French writer who lived through the eras of religious wars in France. The wars were between the Catholics and Protestants, where families butchered each other over personal beliefs. Montaigne wrote his “On the Cannibals” in condemnation over the religious savagery that claimed Europe and defended the chastisement of the Natives from Europeans, citing that the true savages were the “civilized” Europeans. The idea of civility and inferiority were harshly debated. Against Montaigne, people believed that the Natives were inherently inferior and that this was an unchangeable fact. This point of view is what David Hume, a philosopher a century after Montaigne, affirmed. Hume lived during the scientific revolution where reason became a dominant force in thought and where people began to truly value their own observations and ways of acquiring beliefs rather than simply accepting authority or the ideas of the past. Hume wrote his “Of National Characters” to explain the clear inferiority of African slave. While Montaigne may be more inclined toward Hume’s use of scientific reason to ascertain his early claims, Montaigne would ultimately disapprove of Hume’s argument that a certain group of people is inherently inferior to another as this is a subjective view and a byproduct of western metrics.
Montaigne’s signature quote can be defined as an object and lens to view it. People will call anything that they are not used to seeing as “barbarous” just like how people in modern days will call things “weird” if they are not something one sees everyday. Montaigne explains that there is no way of evaluating or measuring something but from what one already owns or values. One cannot evaluate how technologically advanced a Native boat is because the land of the Natives is simply geographically different from that of England or France. One cannot suppose that gold holds much value to Natives if it was never considered a form of currency to the Natives. To the natives, gold was simply a metal from the ground, as is copper to contemporary people. Montaigne overall simply confirms that people cannot judge something using their own metrics of value because it would then no longer be an objective evaluation.
However, Hume’s method of approaching the analysis of people is based on several, generalized observations and induction rather than from shallow accounts that many of Montaigne’s contemporaries gave. In “Of National Characters”, Hume gives examples of the many differences between several breeds of animals from different geographical locations such that the “courage of bull-dogs and game-cocks seem peculiar to England,” or that “large and heavy horses” were what Flanders were known for, or that the horses of Spain were “light, and of good mettle”. He then poses the question, “why not the same with men?” (Hume). These are astute observations that can provide some sense. If animals were so vastly different based on different regions or environments, the exact same should apply to people. People vary both physically and with different manners of intellect based on environmental harshness and whether or not their environment fostered education. Hume’s generalist approach and examples-based explanation certainly answers one of Montaigne’s personal philosophies in disseminating knowledge. Montaigne in his “On the Cannibals” defines true knowledge as “only about what [the author] knows” (Montaigne 65) and not what one thinks they know because they have a small amount of experience. Hume clearly demonstrates that he does not absolutely know the truth or facts but that his observations would lead him to hypothesize so, unlike many of Montaigne’s  contemporaries. Montaigne is likely to respect this fact about Hume’s work in that it is a very different and more reasoned approach toward understanding different cultures rather than irrational and ignorant commentary that he was used to.
On the other hand, Montaigne may still disagree with Hume for the exact same reason as to why he may approve of it. It is Hume’s own bias that ironically causes the likely disapproval of Montaigne. Montaigne posits that what he and others need is “topographers who would make detailed accounts of the places which they had actually been to” (Montaigne 65). This quote indicates that in order to know about something, you must fully understand that very thing. Hume poses many examples and observations. However, they are mere observations, snapshots of life. Hume claims boldly that the Swiss people have “more honesty” than the Irish. He claims that the French can be “expected” to have greater intellect and glee than that of a “Spaniard”. All of these are very subjective claims that objective analysis has no place for analyzing. Hume mentions that Jamaicans talk of “one negroe as a man of parts” (Hume 125). Hume uses hearsay as evidence to propose that Africans are intellectually inferior to those of whites.  Montaigne would question how much Hume knows of the Swiss, the French, the Spanish, and the Africans to come up with such bold claims. Montaigne will likely point out that Hume is neither a Swiss, French, a Spaniard, and definitely not an African. Montaigne would likely attack the fact that he is using an Irish lens to view these Europeans just like how the Europeans used western lenses to view the negroes. Hume uses the single most odiated type of evidence inside his claim that Montaigne would highly disapprove of: anecdotes and shallow accounts. Ultimately, Montaigne would not approve of the claims that Hume proposes because Hume divulges from generalized observations to hearsay and weak, second-hand sources. 
Though Hume provides a more interesting and well thought analysis of the differences between cultures that may provoke Montaigne’s interest and perhaps even initial approval, Hume fails to follow through with his analysis by his lack of credibility on this topic and eventual shallow evidence. Montaigne disapproved of using western styles of thinking and evaluation to measure the Natives of the New World. What is important to the Natives may not be relevant to Europeans and vice versa. To Montaigne, the Old World and New World had to be thought up as two separate spheres of people with their own unique, immeasurable cultures. Hume was born in an era where people began to classify and group unique objects with similar traits and create generalizations or postulates about the world around them. It can be said that even science, or more specifically reason itself, is a western concept that bears no value to those of Natives or the negroes and their culture. It was exactly the west who desired a way to measure and understand the world around them not through the lens of God or through the lens of superstition or ignorance. Montaigne would view science as yet another western lens, a perspective but a subjective one.