Title of Work: The Catcher in the Rye
Author and Date Written: J.D. Salinger, written in the late 1940s and early 1950s
Country of Author: United States of America [Manhattan, New York City, New York]
Characters:
Major Characters:
Holden Caulfield:
Holden is a generally careless, yet aware individual who was recently expelled for his poor work ethic and grades at Pencey. He is very aware of his surroundings, the people and their true faces.
Careless- Holden tends to talk back and unafraid about the consequences of his actions even though he knows exactly what would happen. For example, Holden kept insulting his roommate, Stradlater whilst knowing of what would happen if he kept doing it (he’d get beat up).
Aware- Holden keeps a good idea of his surroundings and the people around him. He also is aware that everyone as phonies (Holden describes them as people who don’t show their true self and feelings in order to assume a persona). For example, Holden went to a place in New York called the Wicker Bar, and he commented that there were a bunch of phonies in the bar.
Minor Characters:
The Phonies of New York
The many citizens who hide their true self so that people don’t know that they may be a worse person than they act as who live in New York impact Holden’s journey. They give Holden something to hate such as their wish to hide their true persona and the fact that there are so many of them.
Fake- These citizens all act like they are sophisticated or nice when in reality they do so to please or earn sympathy from others. For example, Holden left Elkton Hills (the school that he went to before moving to Pencey) because it was filled to the brim with phonies. One phony, in particular, the headmaster, he acted very charming to people’s parents, but only gave a fake smile to parents who didn’t seem like the same as others.
Numerous- It has been said many times by Holden that there are so many phonies in New York. He meets so many throughout his journey that it’s hard to count how many there really are especially if you count that the story only focuses on a small part of New York.


Phoebe Caulfield
Phoebe is Holden’s younger sister who Holden cherishes. She went to the same school that Holden went to when he was her age. Phoebe is a cute and impulsive little girl. 
Cute- Everyone from Holden to his little brother cherished her and was fond of her. It is very important as Phoebe is one of the only reasons he stayed instead of heading off to the West as he said he was going to.
Impulsive- When Holden told her of his plan to head out to the West, she brought her suitcase and wanted to go along with him without thinking for a second. However, it was this action that stopped Holden from leaving New York for good.


Major Settings:
New York:
The entire story revolves around the many places that Holden goes to in New York, from Pencey to his hotel to the bars and theaters of New York. Holden claims that New York is filled with phonies. Holden always insists on heading west and indirectly shows the extensiveness of his hate towards New York. This can lead to the idea that New York can cause people to feel spiteful towards
Plot Outline:
Exposition: Holden gets expelled from Pencey. He has a conversation with one of his teachers who lectured him lightly. After that, Holden goes back to his dorm to pack his things before leaving. He runs into two fellow classmates, Stradlater and Ackley. Stradlater has to go on a date with surprisingly, Jane Gallagher, Holden’s crush. This riles Holden up. Later, Holden reminisces about Jane and his dead brother, Allie. After Stradlater comes back from his date, Holden curiously asks him what happened, but Stradlater refused to answer. This infuriates Holden and caused Holden to throw insults at Stradlater, this infuriates Stradlater which ends up with a beat up Holden. Then, Holden goes into Ackley’s room to have a chatter before leaving.


RA: Holden finishes his packing and he heads out. He rides a train but runs into the mother of one of his classmates. He sarcastically praises her son before leaving to go to his hotel. Holden, all of a sudden has an urge to have sex, he calls up someone, but due to conflicting schedules misses his chance. Later on, Holden reminisced about his past with both his dead brother, Allie and his still-alive sister, Phoebe. Afterward, Holden went down to the lobby of the hotel to check it out. He sees a lousy sight, yet still orders a drink. Holden then sees 3 girls and decides to hit on them; He and the girls danced and chatted for the night. Afterwards, Holden, all of a sudden, reminisces about his crush and childhood friend, Jane. 


Climax: Holden asks his cab driver if he knew where the ducks and fish go in the wintertime.. Holden goes to another bar. In it, he sees more phonies. Suddenly, a friend of Holden’s brother (D.B) introduces herself to Holden. Holden immediately sees her phoniness. He then leaves, then he reminisces about events that occurred at Pencey. When Holden reaches the elevator, a man was in it who offered Holden a prostitute. She pays Sunny (the prostitute) but doesn’t have sex with her for some reason he can’t understand. However, after a bit, Maurice (Sunny’s “owner”) came to demand money that Holden owed (he didn’t); Maurice and Holden get into a fight. Resulting in Holden getting beat up once again.


Falling Action: Due to loneliness, Holden asks Sally Hayes to go on a date with him. She accepts and Holden goes out for breakfast, while doing so, he meets two nuns who Holden admired. He gives a donation to them. Holden goes to buy a record for Phoebe, along the way he hears a kid singing, “If a body catch a body coming through the rye”. Holden goes to a museum and park. Finally, Holden goes on the date, they watch a movie and goes to a skating rink. Afterward, they get in an argument. Holden then calls up and meets with a past colleague. Holden calls Sally Hayes to say that he’ll help trim her Christmas tree. He accidentally breaks the record that he bought for his sister and then goes to a lake to think about things deeply. He goes home to see Phoebe; she is excited to see him, however, is disappointed in him because he got expelled and is running away from home.


Resolution: He runs off to Mr. Antolini’s house (his old teacher) and leaves almost immediately after he finds out that his teacher may be perverted. Mr. Antolini encourages Holden to continue for an education because it is necessary to the survival in this cruel world. He finally heads to Phoebe’s school to give her back the money she lended to him before planning on heading out of New York. Phoebe pouts, asking to go with him, but Holden angrily lashes out at her. Holden brings her to a zoo and a carousel to cheer her up. Holden decides to stay in New York, and he is heading to another school. Holden is unaware of what future he will follow.




Major Themes:
Decline of Innocence in Adulthood
* Holden makes note that children look cute when they sleep, yet adults don’t
* At Phoebe’s school, Holden makes a remark that even given 1 million years worth of time, not even half of the world’s hate can be cleansed.
* Salinger wanted to point out that people become more corrupt through growth and age
* However, Salinger also wanted to point out that there is hope and some people may not be as corrupt as others (the nuns and nice ladies).


Acceptance of Flaws
* One of the biggest problem that Holden never truly addresses is that humans are naturally flawed.
* He addresses every adult as a phony, yet doesn’t realize how phony he himself is. He lies to himself that he doesn’t need to socialize with those phonies, yet when he becomes lonely, he calls Sally Hayes.
* Salinger wanted to use this point about Holden’s inability to accept human flaw to address that no human is not flawed, even those who pretend to be.


Symbols:
Holden Caulfield
“One of the biggest reasons I left Elkton Hills was because I was surrounded by phonies. That’s all. They were coming in the goddamm window,” (Salinger 12).
“‘[...] and nobody’s around--nobody big, I mean--except me. And I’m standing on the edge of some crazy cliff. What I have to do, I have to catch everybody if they start to go over the cliff--I mean if they’re running and they don’t look where they’re going I have to come out from somewhere and catch them. That’s all I’d do all day. I’d just be the catcher in the rye and all,’” (Salinger 173).
“Somebody’d written ‘Fuck you’ on the wall. It drove me damn near crazy. I thought how Phoebe and all the other little kids would see it, and how they’ wonder what the hell it meant [...] But I rubbed it out anyway,” (Salinger 201).


Representation
Holden symbolizes both the unwillingness to change and the literal catcher in the rye in The Catcher in The Rye. He wasn’t willing to bunch himself with “phonies” or what he thinks are negative influence, and he would rather quit school than to do that. He also applies his own beliefs that innocence must be preserved by being the literal catcher in the rye. He believes that the only job for him is to be a “catcher in the rye”, someone who catches kids when they fall (into corruption of adulthood). He wants to protect Phoebe and other kids from adulthood and corruption by erasing the swear words in Phoebe’s school, yet another replaces it, showing how futile his actions are.


“Phonies”
“‘You ought to go to a boy’s school sometime. Try it sometime,’ I said. ‘It’s full of phonies, and all you do is study so that you can learn enough to be smart enough to be able to buy a goddam Cadillac someday, and you have to keep making believe you give a damn if the football team loses, and all you do is talk about girls and liquor and sex all day, and everybody sticks together in these dirty little goddam cliques,’” (Salinger 131).
“He told us as we ought to think of Jesus as our buddy and all. He said he talked to Jesus all the time. Even when he was driving his car. That killed me. I can just see the big phony bastard shifting into first gear and asking Jesus to send him a few more stiffs. The only good part of his speech was right in the middle of it,” (Salinger 17).


Representation
Phonies represent people of society. To Holden, they are anyone who puts up a fake face to gain affection whilst hiding their true feelings and appearances. Holden believes that the world has two kinds of people: Innocent people (young kids and adolescents) and Phonies (grown ups and teenagers). He constantly contrasts them; he shows affection towards Phoebe and other kids, whilst constantly agitates and insults phonies like Stradlater, Sally, and others. Holden is unwilling to fit in with these people because of his unwillingness to change and adapt to the adult life.


Significant Imagery:
“I woke up all of a sudden. I don’t know what time it was or anything, but I woke up. I felt something on my head, some guy’s hand. Boy, it really scared the hell out of me. What it was, it was Mr. Antolini’s hand. What he was doing was, he was sitting on the floor right next to the couch, in the dark and all, and he was sort of petting me or patting me on the goddamn head. Boy, I’ll bet I jumped about a thousand feet. ‘What the hellya doing?’ I said. ‘Nothing! I’m simply sitting here, admiring--’ ‘What’re ya doing? I said,” (Salinger 192).


Salinger used a lot of visual imagery here to compare Holden petting Phoebe and Mr. Antolini petting him. Holden petted Phoebe because he found it cute to see kids sleep and this fact applies to Mr. Antolini petting Holden, but Holden found it disturbing, which was ironic since he did this to Phoebe. This reveals characterization of both Holden and Mr. Antolini. Just like how Holden was the catcher in the rye for Phoebe, not wanting her to lose her innocence, Mr. Antolini is the catcher in the rye for Holden, not wanting him to lose his. After witnessing a student’s death, he wants to prevent Holden from doing the same because he believes Holden has some suicidal tendency.


“But I knew, too, I wouldn’t have the guts to do it. I knew that. That made me even more depressed. I hardly even had the guts to rub it off the wall with my hand, if you want to know the truth. I was afraid some teacher would catch me rubbing it off and would think I’d written it. But I rubbed it out anyway, finally,” (Salinger 201).


In this visually stimulating and meaningful part of the book where Holden hesitantly erases the curse words on a wall written in his little sister’s school with his own hand. It is deep that Holden is selfless enough that in order to prevent the dirtying and harming of the innocence of little kids (including his sister), he literally dirties himself by erasing the curse words on the wall himself, risking his own social image to be dirtied.


“I didn’t care, though. I felt so damn happy all of a sudden, the way old Phoebe kept going around and around. I was damn near bawling, I felt so damn happy, if you want to know the truth. I don’t know why. It was just that she looked so damn nice, the way she kept going around and around, in her blue coat and all. God, I wish you could’ve been there,” (Salinger 213)


In this beautifully painted scene where Holden finally gets the motivation to stay in New York (and not commit suicide), he sees Phoebe exhibiting the beauties of childhood and innocence. He gets a glimpse of hope of the preservation of innocence and happiness that he was searching for. Throughout the entire novel, Holden has gone through sad events (suicide of a classmate, possibility that his crush being stolen, told off by a date, beaten up twice, and so many more sad events), but finally, he has found a bit of happiness that he longed for in the entire novel.


Significance of the Title: The title The Catcher in The Rye refers back to a poem that Holden hears. He thinks the lyrics were, “If a body catch a body comin’ through the rye”, but it really is, “If a body meet a body coming through the rye”. This is significant as what Holden hears is the exact opposite of what is in the actual song. The catcher that Holden is thinking of is someone who catches kids when they fall off. This symbolizes catching kids when they fall into the depths of adulthood and lose their innocence. Holden wants to preserve the innocence of the world and especially of children, and that is what he hears, however, the song actually talks about sex, and losing one’s innocence. The purpose of using The Catcher in The Rye is to inform the reader of the impossible dream of maintaining innocence in the world and remind the reader of Holden’s dream.


Author’s Important techniques:
Salinger used irony to help build the characterization of Holden. Holden has a self-contrasting personality. He can’t stand phonies, yet he also can’t stand being alone. In the novel, he reaches out towards Sally due to his isolation, but rejects her when he couldn’t handle her phoniness. “What did I do, I gave old Sally Hayes a buzz,” (Salinger 105, Chapter 15). And later, “‘C’mon, let’s get outa here,’ I said. ‘You give me a royal pain in the ass, if you want to know the truth,’” (Salinger 133, Chapter 17). Holden believes he is someone who doesn’t need anyone phony around him, so he isolates himself, yet it is because of this isolation that he goes and calls Sally to get a date with her. 


Salinger uses diction to help authenticize the world in The Catcher in The Rye. Salinger intentional makes everyone speak broken english (slang) to give the novel its 40s and 50s feel where everyone spoke informally. In the following dialogue, Salinger uses slang and “drunk slurring” to make it seem like Holden really is drunk. “‘Sally? That you?’ ‘Yes--stop screaming. Are you drunk?’ ‘Yeah. Listen. Listen, hey. I’ll come over Christmas Eve. Okay? Trimma goddam tree for ya. Okay? Okay, hey Sally?’” (Salinger 151, Chapter 20). Salinger authenticize the novel in order to captivate the reader and make it feel like they are in his world; this makes it easier for him to share his point of view of the matter (coming-of-age).


Significant Quotes:


Passage #1
“If you was a fish, Mother Nature’d take care you, wouldn’t she? Right? You don’t think them fish just die when it gets to be winter, do ya?” - Horwitz


Horwitz in this response towards Holden’s question is a great message towards society. Horwitz essentially explains that you’re here in this world for a reason, no reason not to live your life to its fullest. Mother nature’s fish don’t die just when it hits winter; Mother nature will take care of them like a real mother would. Holden holds a very pessimistic view of the world; he believes it is full of phonies and that the people who don’t fit in to the world’s sick hierarchy and plan simply die (Allie, being a good natured boy and Holden’s classmate, who spoke out against his bullies).


Passage #2
“If you had a million years to do it in, you couldn’t rub out even half the “Fuck you” signs in the world. It’s impossible.” - Holden Caulfield


Holden in his inner-monologue explains that the world is full of hate that can’t be fixed. He believes that even when given millions of years of time, you wouldn’t be able to fix even half of the world’s problems. In the real world, curse words are so prominent throughout social media, casual language and even in watchable media like movies, books, and etc.. Though Holden wants these problems fixed, it is simply impossible at this stage because change is hard to accept.


Passage #3
“But I do say that educated and scholarly men, if they’re brilliant and creative to begin with--which, unfortunately, is rarely the case--tend to express themselves more clearly, and they usually have a passion for following their thoughts through to the end. And--most important--nine times out of ten they have more humility than the unscholarly thinker.” - Mr. Antolini


Mr. Antolini gives a great quote about the importance of education. Even though you may be thinking about giving up on education because life is hard, you must get that education to succeed in the real world. Mr. Antolini wants you to get an education so you can follow your passions and be better than those who aren’t educated. He also believes that the more educated one is, the more humble a person is.