March 14, 2021

Dear Professor Seidl:

When I first read Gladwell’s work, I noticed that this was a long article. I had a hard time condensing and organizing his ideas. Drawing what I remember from memory, I wrote down what he said. Then, I chose a couple of the quotes I highlighted and expanded upon them. All of this was done to get a grasp of what are the main points I can comment on the most and write about the most. I also wrote a small outline to the side of the paper to help me focus and not stray away. I struggled a little with APA citations, since I mostly write in CSE citations for my lab reports. I looked at one of the sample papers and emulated their APA format. 
I received feedback from my peers that I may be verbose at times where I reiterate the same points again. I went back and deleted the sentence “These people do not know each other in real life” because it sounded absolute. Instead of focusing on reiterating the quotes, I expanded on why the main idea of these quotes supported Gladwell’s argument. For example, I added 2 sentences to explain how returning phones is not activism. One of my peers also noticed something was off with my citations. I went on Purdue Owl and realized that I should put the date (2010) right after the author’s name instead of at the end of the quote. 
I took your advice to reference the author in the response section. I went back to insert some quotes and paraphrasing to make my piece feel more complete. I added a paragraph with Gladwell’s quote about expression and asserted that it is useful in activism. I paraphrased Gladwell’s assumption about real friend vs Facebook friend. Lastly, I also explained what sit-ins are in my paper because it was mentioned during class. 
My strengths when it comes to writing is that I am good at writing commentary, organizing my paragraphs in logical order, and making sure my paper flows well. One of my biggest weaknesses is that I tend to be a little verbose. Usually there is a minimum page requirement for an assignment rather than a range I needed to stay within, so I just write comfortably. Next time, I want to work on being less wordy and write concisely but effectively.

Best regards, 

Maggie Leung 



Maggie Leung
March 14, 2021
ENG 101-1003
Project #1
Does Social Media Have a Place in Activism?
      With the emergence of social media, sending a message to the other side of the world is a tap away. This ease of access has led social media to function as the marketplace of ideas where people unite under shared beliefs. It is believed that activists can utilize this platform to reach millions. Hence, social media is hailed as the turning point of activism, taking it to a new level. However, Malcolm Gladwell begs to differ. In his article “Small Change,” Gladwell claims that social media deviates us away from the true spirit of activism because it nurtures frail relationships between activists and creates a dispersive network instead of a functioning organization. 
      Previous efforts of civil rights activism are currently being compared to the activism done today using social media. Advocates for social media think that we can now encourage others around the world to stand up for their rights and coordinate protests. For example, there was a protest that took place in Moldova against the nation’s government. The media praised this to be the work of Twitter because “the demonstrators had been brought together” through this platform (Gladwell, 2010, para. 33). In actuality, the protest was not organized through Twitter because most of the people in Moldova did not even have Twitter accounts. The loud voices on Twitter came from outsiders who were watching the protest unfold and not from the natives themselves. Yet, it was the “activism” done by these outsiders who did not physically participate that received the credit. This illustrates how the importance of social media in activism is heavily misconstrued and twisted by the news.
      Furthermore, social media downplays the difficulty of getting involved into activism. Activism is much more than going on your phone, retweeting a post that you agree with, and sharing the success of those that did the work. Millions can retweet the same post, but very few would organize campaigns or participate in protests. Gladwell (2010) asserts that activism is made for those who can stand against the society that perpetuated the inequalities because activism “challenges the status quo” (para. 11). Confronting the system exposes the activists to many dangers. For example, civil rights activists faced the fear of being arrested by the police, being confronted by members of the Klu Klux Klan, and being killed by people who despised their efforts. They risked their lives to stand up for their cause. It takes firm convictions to truly walk down the road of activism. 
      After one decides to get involved, longevity is another issue. Whether an activist decides to stay or not is correlated with how close they are to people in their organization. For example, Doug McAdam, a Stanford sociologist, studied the deciding factor to the longevity of activists and concluded, “participants were far more likely than dropouts to have close friends who were also going” (as cited in Gladwell, 2010, para. 12). An activist is likely to stay if they have friends in the movement because it reminds them that they are not working alone. However, social media does not foster such relationships because the activists mostly come to know each other through shallow interactions. The media lauds how millions have joined together for a cause. Yet is it possible for one individual to “know” the millions of people in their group? Though people can have similar opinions on many issues, most would not care enough to act. This goes for the relationships nurtured by social media. 
      It also does not help that social media encourages minimal participation. This is illustrated when the friends of Sameer Bhatia, a patient suffering from leukemia, looked to social media to find a person with matching bone marrow. Millions signed up. However, Gladwell (2010) believes that this campaign succeeded “by not asking too much of them [donors]” because “it doesn’t involve financial or personal risk” (para. 18). Hitting the sign-up button and getting a test did not require much effort. At the end of the day, life improved for one individual. Society did not change for the better. The story would have been different if an organization was founded to improve the situations of patients looking for donors. 
      Moreover, social media is not built for efficiency. The format of organizations should follow a hierarchy where there are designated leaders that work with members in order to achieve a goal. This was how the organizations of the Civil Rights Movement functioned. Sit-ins was a form of civil disobedience where people refused to leave their seats in restaurants that practiced segregation. The four students who initiated the sit-ins were all part of the N.A.A.C.P. Youth Council. The sit-ins were not spontaneous: they were planned. Social media-based activism is not capable of such meticulous organization because they are a network instead of a hierarchy (Gladwell, 2010, paras. 21-24). Networks invite voices from all directions. It is easy to disagree with one another, and it is hard to come to a consensus. Progress is slow because it is difficult to appease everyone. Members who made mistakes can leave without consequences. In essence, coordination is difficult under a network. 
      While Gladwell concedes that social media is good at spreading the message quickly, he asserts that this is only good for solving problems concerning individuals. Such is the case for a woman named Ivanna. She lost her phone in a taxicab. Her friend Evan tracked the phone to the thief and tried to get the phone returned but to no avail. He then posted the story online which went viral, and the phone was returned. While there is a time and place for social media, it is only good for “things like helping Wall Streeters get phones back from teen-age girls” (Gladwell, 2010, para. 33). The problem that was solved did not involve a societal ill. It only involved an individual that made a bad choice. These stories that the media reports on are not examples of activism. Essentially, social media can be used to better the lives of individuals but not the people. 
      Lastly, Gladwell concludes his piece with a sarcastic remark of using “viva la revolución” to describe where current activism is at (2010, para. 33). He laments at how social media is restraining the development of activism under the guise of progress. 
      Although I agree with Gladwell’s sentiment about the limits of social media, I believe that we can utilize the strengths of social media to help achieve our goals. We live in the age where our lives are increasingly interconnected with one another over social media. Schools have them, companies have them, even cats have them. It is a resource that anyone can use at any time, and I believe that we should work with what we have. Instead of letting social media guide our actions, we should take advantage of all that social media has to offer. 
      One of the core aspects of social media is that it offers anonymity. Most people in real life are not comfortable with sharing their unfortunate experiences because of the fear of judgement from others. Because there is a screen separating the person who is writing the post and the readers, this anonymity gives people the strength to speak up. For example, there was a lot of people who bravely shared their stories on Twitter under the hashtag #MeToo. The hashtag was not the only thing that came out of the MeToo movement; it also gave a lot of people the strength to tell their stories and condemn the acts of sexual harassment and sexual assault. 
      It is not to say that people should always hide behind a screen. Social media is meant to be a starting point. Gladwell (2010) acknowledges that social media offers us a plethora of voices because “it makes it easier for activists to express themselves” (para. 32). People who are afraid to participate can participate. More voices are being heard. This contributes to a library of stories where we learn that people can come from different backgrounds but suffer the same problems and to different degrees. Telling their stories do not solve the problem directly; however, I trust that these stories help the activists get a better grasp of the situation. Then, they can devise solutions that are applicable to those in need. 
      I agree with Gladwell that oftentimes the relationships fostered on the Internet may not be as close as the relationships activists form in real life, but I also believe that these connections are still meaningful. All relationships begin with shallow interactions. However, the importance is in the consequent interactions that occur thereafter. Activists may meet one another from a simple gathering just as activists can meet in an online forum. Activists that met online could check to see if they can meet in real-life and build a friendship there. 
      If that is not possible, there are other ways to build relationships with other fellow activists. People can use social media to discover local activist groups in their community and get involved from there on. I suppose that Gladwell would also agree that these relationships formed in a community will be tightly interconnected. Gladwell (2010) makes an assumption when he asserts that social media advocates cannot tell the difference between a Facebook friend and a real-life friend (para. 19). He assumes that these two events are mutually exclusive. People can meet each other in real-life and exchange social media. Activists can follow each other’s accounts to see what everyone is like outside of activism, deepening their friendship. 
      Relationships over the internet fail because the only time these relationships are maintained is through the internet. In real life, people still value face-to-face communication. When we watch a movie with friends, we do not watch it over the internet. We would go to a movie theater together. When we make friends and get their social media, we do not just text each other over Instagram. We make plans and hang out. Social media does not maintain our relationships. We do. Instead of condemning the use of social media, we should investigate how we can use it to complement activism. Social media will not be the central part to activism, but it has its place. At the end of the day, social media is just a medium. It is as useful as we make it out to be.

















References
Gladwell, M. (2010, September 27). Small change. The New Yorker.					https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2010/10/04/small-change-malcolm-gladwell




