Maggie Leung
Redefining the Spheres of Gender Roles  
CH 203-1009


































      
      As the nineteenth century emerged, came an era of revolutions that changed American life in the social, political, and economical aspects. The list of revolutions included the Industrial Revolution that transformed everyday life in the consumption of products, the Emancipation Proclamation that marked the beginning of many more struggles of racial inequality, the First-wave Feminism that showed the advocating of women’s rights, and many more. Taking place in a growing economy, in an era of abolitionists, and the emergence of advocating of women’s rights, Catharine Beecher takes a stance in her piece, A Treatise on Domestic Economy that furthers women’s influence yet at the same time restricted them in separate spheres. Essentially, Beecher defines the role of women in society and promotes women’s education in order to prepare them as homemakers. 
      First of all, in her book, A Treatise on Domestic Economy, Beecher markets the image of the American housewife to mainly the middle and upper class women. Her book was published in 1841 and consisted of defining the ideal housewife and how to be one: it included information on storage, clothing, purchasing goods, taking care of family, etc.1 Such a handbook on economics pointed to the middle and upper class because of the Industrial Revolution that took place during the time. The products of the Industrial Revolution included the increased wages of the middle class, mass production, and consumer culture. Although wages were disproportionate in the stratified society, the wages of the middle class still increased. Thus, increased wages coupled with mass production allowed for cheaper prices and increased purchase power. During a time where consumer culture is prevalent and developing, Beecher’s advice on housewife economics is relevant and would encourage housewives to purchase goods. 
      Secondly, Beecher emphasizes the notion that women need to be educated. Beecher was educated at Litchfield Female Academy. However, due to the passing of her mother, she left school to take care of her siblings back at home. Later on, Beecher took a teaching post in New London, Connecticut. Throughout her life, she founded schools, taught, and wrote textbooks.2Because she herself had an education, she herself realized the importance of education to women. Because she had to take care of her siblings, she realized the importance of family to women. The combination of the two is seen and reinforced throughout her works such as A Treatise on Domestic Economy, Miss Beecher’s Domestic Recipe Book, etc.3 Her general subjects revolve around the life and mundane duties of a housewife such as cooking meals and buying groceries. Her vision of women’s education does not include courses like mathematics and physics, her focus of women’s education is solely in the department of economics. However, she asserts that economics should not be looked down upon because it is equally important as any other fields out there.4 Although she calls for an increased number of educated women, the fields that those women can go into is only related to economics, a rather narrow selection of options. To put it simply, Beecher advocates for education of women, particularly in economics in order to prepare them as homemakers and bearers of democracy because they are morally and socially superior to men. 
      Thirdly, Beecher opposed the First-wave Feminism. Contrary to the general stereotype that people who do not support women’s rights are people who support women subjugation, Beecher takes a different approach. Her argument is based on the fact that women are superior than men in certain areas that give them a critical standing in society because they are vital to the future of the country, despite staying in the private sphere. The success of democracy is dependent on the basic unit of society: family. Everything starts with family because they contribute to the masses. Since men take power over the outer social sphere, women will take the inner social sphere: home. Home means children. Who best suits the job of nurturing children? It is women. It is the mother’s job to make sure that the children gets the best education growing up because women have morality. Their morality allows them to make choices that are “good.” Women are “good” because they are not exposed to the horrors of the corrosive public sphere that is filled with greed, corruption, and inhumanity.5 Because men are already exposed to such atrocities, they cannot take on the job of nurturing their children. Thus, the responsibility is left to the women because they are protected within the private sphere —at home. For the sake of the next generation, they are to use that “good” to foster morality into their kids —at home. 
      Furthermore, Beecher argues that feminists are wrong about the notion that housewives are oppressed and mistreated. Although women do not hold political and economic power, they are not mistreated. It is depicted in everyday life as “precedence is given to all women.”6 Men hold the door for women, pay for the household needs, and decide economically and politically for the nation. Although women depend on men, having men do everything for them means that they hold women to a high regard. Powerless does not equate to being mistreated or taken advantage of. Men do all those things that are considered outside the sphere because women “take no interest or concern” in such affairs.7 It is not that women are being kept away from the public sphere of society: it is that women themselves do not want to be out in the public. 
      Also, Beecher expresses that women simply chose to take on a submissive role. Being submissive is not the equivalent of being enslaved. For most of her explanations, she draws on her Calvinist heritage as she applies religion to social life.8 In her piece, she continuously makes connections between Christianity and democracy by emphasizing that “The principles of democracy, then are identical with the principles of Christianity.”9 She explains the reality of the current social norms with the teachings of religion. Some of the Calvinist tenets are self-sacrifice and submission. Beecher argues that women give up their place to become subordinated because of self-sacrifice.10 By placing themselves in this position of submission, women are sustaining harmony —for the public good. Evidence of subordination is found throughout societal life in forms of “husband and wife...parent and child...teacher and pupil.”11 In a way, such dynamics of power create order, a sort of system that sustains the status quo.12 If one tries to change it, it would ruin the status quo, bringing disorder. It is the way life works. It is the way society functions. It is the way public good is maintained. Therefore giving a reason of why women are where they are in society: women choose to take the inferior position and give up their power because they are doing good and maintaining peace. However, Beecher fails to realize that there are many types of societies out there in the world. For instance, egalitarian societies function well with little to no stratification, and there is equality for both sexes.
      Beecher also makes an important point about choice when she praises the democracy of the United States and criticizes the countries with monarchical and aristocratic nations, saying that the people in the societal roles of those countries do not have a choice in deciding who their “boss” is.13 Subjects to monarchs, servants to masters, peasants to landlords, all of these people do not choose who they obey. People in such societies are oppressed and taken advantage of because they did not have a say in deciding who has the power in the relationships. However, in the United States, women do have a say in who they choose to be their boss or the head of the household.14 Women choose who will become their husband. It is precisely this difference that makes women “equal” to men. Yet, it is ironic how women can make the choice to become submissive but cannot make the choice to become un-submissive. 
      Equal in different ways is her central definition of equality. In fact, it is degrading for women to become equal to men in the exact same ways. Through her reference of M. De. Tocqueville, Beecher quotes that to make both genders equal, “both are degraded” because they are “naturally like this” —that is decided by God.15 She signifies that we cannot alter the natural order, the way God made us. How else can we account for our physical differences? Because men and women have differences, they should have specific and distinct roles applied to them. She asserts that it is degrading and foolish to go against nature and God itself. Instead, we should make both genders fulfill their own roles —act out the roles they were given because that itself is equality.
      Radically, Beecher also breaks away from the traditional ideals of women. She explains, “She chooses for herself nor is she obliged to take a husband, if she prefers to remain single.” 16Women do not have to get married if they do not want to. She does not advocate for the MRS degree that women should look for a husband as their main goal in their life and that is it. Rather, what she meant is that if one chooses to have a relationship or to get married, stick to it. If not, then it is fine to be single and independent as well. In her own life, she had a fiancé but he passed away, and she never married.17 But for those who are married, stick to the role of being the mother of the house, mother of democracy. Paradoxically, it all comes down to a matter of choice, even though it is limited.
      Lastly, Beecher closes her piece off with a grand ending. She highlights, “It is the building of a glorious temple...whose splendor shall beam on all land…”18 She ends with a glorious vision of superiority of the United States that is similar to the phrase of “a city upon a hill” from Winthrop. The United States is to be a grand nation in which everyone else look up to. The bricks that supports this structure and the workers that helped to build this nation are women because the children they fostered have brought pride and glory to the nation. She illustrates a picture that leaves women in awe and gives themselves a sense of self-importance of this “thing” they are a part of and building. This is why women should take pride in their work and not wallow into the lies of the feminists. It is comforting to those who began to doubt the value of being a stay-at-home mother because it reassures them of their values. It gives a sense of protection against the identity crises.
      During the time, people were trying to define gender norms and gender roles in the midst of racial equality and technological progress. It was time of trying to redefine things...where some radically redefined norms while others held on to the traditional values. Society at the time was a mess, and it was era of confusion with people trying to figure themselves out. Beecher gave them that. Beecher gave women an identity: she gave them a definition that they can hold onto and gave them comfort.19 She reassured those who have always believed in the traditional values and lived in the inner sphere. She comforted those who felt that they were oppressed, useless, and at the bottom of society by emphasizing that women are important because they are “equal” yet superior to men in a sense and are part of something big. Something that goes by the name of democracy. Women have a unique intellect and morality that men do not have that make them best suited to the private sphere. They are responsible for raising the children that determines the good of the future. They are seemingly insignificant but when added up, they are significant.20 Because after all, they are the mothers of democracy. Without them, there would be no future. 
       In conclusion, Beecher makes compromises on both the traditional values and radical values, even though she sways towards the traditional side. She breaks away from the uneducated women but stays within in the women’s private sphere. Beecher expands the sphere of men and women by placing an emphasis on education and home and supports the independence and confidence of women. Yet she only stretches the boundaries, not breaking through them. Innovative yet conforming to the separate social spheres, it is a work of juxtaposition. She gave her own definition of “equality” in gender. Her definition will carry on as gender equality is continuously contested, with feminists fighting for equality and others protecting the traditional values. In a way, her work foreshadows the social life of the twentieth century that consists of mass consumerism and unhappy housewives. 
















Bibliography


Catharine Beecher, "A Treatise on Domestic Economy." In Five hundred years: America in the		 world, by Scott E. Casper, Richard O. Davies, and Greta De Jong, 240-44. 6th ed.			 Boston, MA: Pearson Custom Pub., 2016.

"Catherine Beecher." History of American Women. April 02, 2017.						http://www.womenhistoryblog.com/2013/10/catherine-beecher.html.

Catherine Villanueva Gardner, "Heaven-Appointed Educators of Mind: Catharine Beecher and		 the Moral Power of Women." Hypatia 19, no. 2 (2004): 1-16.					 http://www.jstor.org/stable/3811134.

Charlotte E. Biester, "Catharine Beecher's Views of Home Economics." History of Education		Journal 3, no. 3 (1952): 88-91. http://www.jstor.org/stable/3659182.

Donald M. Scott, "Women and Education." History of Education Quarterly 15, no. 2 (1975):		213-17. http://www.jstor.org/stable/367983

Elizabeth Nelson, The Business History Review 50, no. 3 (1976): 391-92.					http://www.jstor.org/stable/3113006.

Jane Shaffer Elsmere, Indiana Magazine of History 70, no. 2 (1974): 187-89.				http://www.jstor.org/stable/27789969.











1 "Catherine Beecher." History of American Women. April 02, 2017.	
2 Ibid.

3 Charlotte E. Biester, "Catharine Beecher's Views of Home Economics." History of Education Journal 3, no. 3 (1952): 89-90.

4 Ibid., 89. 
5 Donald M. Scott, "Women and Education." History of Education Quarterly 15, no. 2 (1975): 213.

6 Catharine Beecher, "A Treatise on Domestic Economy." In Five hundred years: America in the world, by Scott E. Casper, Richard O. Davies, and Greta De Jong, 243. 6th ed. Boston, MA: Pearson Custom Pub., 2016.

7 Ibid.

8 Jane Shaffer Elsmere, Indiana Magazine of History 70, no. 2 (1974): 187-89.

9 Catherine Villanueva Gardner, "Heaven-Appointed Educators of Mind: Catharine Beecher and the Moral Power of Women." Hypatia 19, no. 2 (2004): 6-9.

10 Ibid.

11 Catharine Beecher, "A Treatise on Domestic Economy." In Five hundred years: America in the world, by Scott E. Casper, Richard O. Davies, and Greta De Jong, 241. 6th ed.		 Boston, MA: Pearson Custom Pub., 2016.

12 Ibid. 

13 Ibid., 241-42.

14 Ibid.

15 Ibid. 

16 Ibid.

17 Donald M. Scott, "Women and Education." History of Education Quarterly 15, no. 2 (1975): 215-16.

18 Catharine Beecher, "A Treatise on Domestic Economy." In Five hundred years: America in the world, by Scott E. Casper, Richard O. Davies, and Greta De Jong, 244. 6th ed.		 Boston, MA: Pearson Custom Pub., 2016.

19 Elizabeth Nelson, The Business History Review 50, no. 3 (1976): 391.
	
20 Catharine Beecher, "A Treatise on Domestic Economy." In Five hundred years: America in the world, by Scott E. Casper, Richard O. Davies, and Greta De Jong, 243-44. 6th ed.		 Boston, MA: Pearson Custom Pub., 2016.

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

9

