Maggie Leung 
ANTH 420.1001
Essay # 3
      
      For the Songhay people in Niger, sorcery is an integral part of their culture that permeates their everyday lives because sorcerers are not only responsible for the welfare of their communities but are also responsible for upholding Songhay tradition and culture. Songhay’s definition of sorcery is having the ability and knowledge to perform feats that solve problems. Their definition differs from the anthropological definition of sorcery. The anthropological definition of sorcery is heavily linked with witchcraft, with witchcraft as the umbrella term.  Witchcraft often carries a negative connotation where witchcraft is seen to be the cause of misfortune —witchcraft is doing evil. Witchcraft is also described as a deviation from the social norms and is not a common part of daily life. However, in Songhay’s cultural context, sorcery not only dwells in the gray area between good and evil but also becomes an important part of Songhay societal norms. 
       First off, a sorcerer is capable of “fixing” many issues with their plethora of specialized knowledge and power that ranges from marriage problems to illnesses. For instance, in the memoir, Kassey, a powerful sorceress, sold a charm to man whose wife left him but returned because of the charm’s effects. Another instance is when Adamu, a sorcerer, treated a woman’s wound. Both examples showcase the power of sorcerer that enables them to function as the doctor of their community and to be responsible for the well-being of their people, both mentally and physically. This is analogous to a D.O. physician because a D.O. physician looks at their patients in a holistic way and offers a treatment that not only treats the physical problem but also takes into account their mental state and lifestyle. Similarly, a sorcerer treats their community holistically and keeps it functioning. Here, Songhay sorcery takes a positive connotation. Instead of bringing misfortune, sorcery is preventing misfortune from reaching the people.  
      Furthermore, the sorcerer is also a symbol of Songhay tradition. Throughout the memoir, a prominent juxtaposition is formed and reiterated between the modern younger generation and the traditional older generation. The elderly Songhay people are upset and express their disapproval towards the younger generation for their departure from tradition. For instance, when the dancers of the possession ceremonies go to ask Adamu Jenitongo for their payment, Adamu Jenitongo remarks, “All these young people are interested in is money...they are in hurry to learn and learning nothing except treachery” (Stoller and Olkes 90). Adamu Jenitongo is upset by the dancers’ impatience for money because it shows that they are only dancing in the possession ceremony to get paid: they had no interest in performing the dance for the sake of the people or sitting down and spend time with Adamu Jenitongo to learn something. This notion of impatience marks a departure from tradition. Songhay tradition asserts that people should be a patient listener and ask meaningful questions after listening. Modernity breaks away from tradition and prompts people to become an impatient listener who asks “bad” and meaningless questions because those questions will be answered by the end of the listening. 
      In essence, sorcerers uphold the Songhay tradition because the path to become a sorcerer is walked with patience. An apprentice starts off by memorizing the words to incantations without learning the meanings. Sometimes, there is no answer to “why” or “how.” The teacher will not answer every question that is asked. The apprentice must have patience and accept it as it is. Perhaps, the apprentice will come to the answers later on in life because after all, sorcery is a lifelong journey, and a sorcerer is a lifelong learner. Sorcery preaches patience. The path of a sorcerer is also like a Songhay warrior: one must be hard. To be hard is to be relentless. To be hard is to proceed one’s path with conviction. A sorcerer must protect and defend themselves restlessly just as a warrior does in wars. For the Songhay people, they admire warrior traits and seek to carry out their lives like a warrior. In this case, a sorcerer functions as the glue that holds the Songhay people together as their country modernizes by maintaining the well-being of a community and by being a symbol of tradition. Here, Songhay sorcery becomes the heart of their culture. This differs from the anthropological notion that witchcraft is associated with inversion of the moral order. For the Songhay people, sorcery is the moral order because it embodies the warrior characteristics that they value: patience and hardness. 
      Now, sorcery undeniably has its positive effects when sorcerers uphold their duties. The keyword here is “when” because sorcerers do not always preach what they were taught: sorcerers do not always walk their path with a pure heart. This is why sorcery blurs the lines between good and bad because it is more about what a sorcerer does with the power they wield. It is about the work they do in their communities. It is about whether or not they stay true to the teachings of sorcery.  This is exemplified with a comparison between Dijibo in Mehanna and Adamu Jenitongo in Tillaberi about the type of work they do as sorcerers. 
      Dijibo’s reputation as a sorcerer in Mehanna is not positive because whenever Stoller references Dijibo in his conversations, people in Mehanna warn him that Dijibo is only trying to exploit him and that he is not a good sorcerer. This shows that there is not a lot of trust between Dijibo. Later on, it is revealed that Dijibo practices sorcery for the sake of uplifting his social status and for money. The warnings from the people of Mehanna at the beginning of the memoir comes true when Stoller concludes, “I knew that he was after money...had always wanted to profit from our relationship” (Stoller and Olkes 214). Although for Stoller it was a mutualistic exchange at the beginning of his apprenticeship, Stoller did not foresee that their friendship would become sour after Dijibo’s greed became more apparent. In the end, Dijibo’s greed ruined relationships around him, made people lose respect for him, and failed to do good works for his community. 
      Dijibo had the power to do good for his community because it is shown in the memoir where Stoller recounts Dijibo performing a curing rite for a man who was suffering from an undiagnosed disease. Yet, he decided to use his power to exploit others and only think about the profits. Here, the gray side of Songhay sorcery is illustrated because Dijibo did little to cast away any misfortunes of his people because not only do his people not go to him for help but also that the people do not trust him. Here, Dijibo stands out as a deviation from Songhay sorcery and shares similarity to anthropological witchcraft because Dijibo strays away from the norms that a sorcerer should maintain a coherent community and be a model of Songhay tradition.
      While on the other hand, Adamu Jenitongo has a positive reputation and many people come to him for treatment. This shows that his people trust him and his ability to fix their problems. Some instances include the time where Adamu Jenitongo figured out who stole a student’s money and the time when he cured a woman’s wound. However, the biggest difference between Dijibo and Adamu Jenitongo is their purpose for practicing sorcery. This is depicted when Adamu refuses the payment until recovery from one of his clients, “Only when your wound heals will I accept your money.” (Stoller and Olkes 155). Here, it is seen that his ultimate concern is not getting paid but that his client recovers. Getting paid is secondary to resolving the issues of his people. When Adamu practices sorcery, he does it for the people: he does good work. Adamu embodies the essence of Songhay sorcery.  
      In essence, Songhay sorcery does share the negative elements of anthropological witchcraft when practiced improperly by practitioners. However, Songhay sorcery assumes a daily and regular presence in the lives of the Songhay people and becomes a part of social order which differs from anthropological witchcraft that is seen as a departure from the order. 
      
