Maggie Leung 
Professor Fisette 
PHIL135-1001
16 December 2019

Why can evil be attractive?
      I argue that Sade’s theory of evil explains Costello’s analogy between the Holocaust and the factory farming of animals because Sade highlights how humans have a natural appetite for evil and a desensitized state enables people to follow through with their desires and ignore moral consequences. My argument for this claim has three parts. First, I reconstruct Sade’s argument for why it is natural to be attracted to evil; second, I reconstruct Engels’s argument for how evil proliferates in populations due to societal structures; third, I argue that these theoretical frameworks make sense of Costello’s comparison between Holocaust and meat eating because evil disguises itself well when the majority of the population is doing evil deeds and denying that evil exists. 
      In his work, Justine, Marquis de Sade argues that if aesthetic joy or beauty is in the eye of the beholder, then one ought not punish, but on the contrary support people’s pursuit of their own version of beauty. It is not an astonishing fact that people have different tastes — “If then in this world there exist persons whose tastes conflict with accepted prejudices, not only must one not be surprised by the fact... but one must aid them” (Sade 601). In fact, recognizing that a variety of tastes exists calls for a need of acceptance of such tastes. Beauty is subjective; therefore, all perceptions of beauty are valid —including the beauty of sadistic pain. 
      Sade defines sadism as a type of beauty when he asserts, “The beauty in which we delight the most, or by the sight of that object undergoing the strongest possible sensation; now, there is no more lively sensation than that of pain” (Sade 606). To Sade, evil is beautiful because the giver gets to observe the pained reactions of the receiver. Ironically, pain takes on an animated and lively connotation because we know we are alive when we can still feel pain. 
      In the viewpoint of the sadist, sadistic pain is their version of beauty. By substituting sadistic pain in place of beauty, Sade comes to the conclusion that one ought not punish, but on the contrary support the sadists in their pursuit of sadism (their own version of beauty and joy). 
      Furthermore, Sade does not deny sadistic pain is evil. So what if it is evil? He seems to say. Evil is natural. The man who succumbs to his desires is a man that is “no longer fears to be selfish, to reduce everyone about him, and he sates his appetites...without remorse” (Sade 608). Sade supports people who are true to themselves and do not let themselves be bound to societal norms. Although society deems selfishness as evil while selflessness as good, Sade emphasizes that such characterization does not matter in the name of nature. Nature would say, “be advised that there is nothing in our which is not my own, nothing I did not place in you for reasons it is not fitting you be acquainted with” (Sade 609). Every desire that humans are capable of are given to us by nature, including evil desires. This suggests that evil is natural: evil is not foreign to humans. When we submit to our evil desires, we are simply satisfying our needs. Our desires are something that originates within ourselves and not because of any outside “sources.” 
      On the other hand, good is not so attractive because “he either wants the woman to partake of pleasure, and thereupon his joys are at an end; or he fears lest she will suffer, and he is hurled into confusion, all’s brought to a stop” (Sade 604). When a man tries to do good and worry about the woman’s feelings and consent, the pleasure he receives ceases. In this case, his desires are not satisfied. Therefore, it is pointless and does not benefit him to consider the woman’s feelings as important. To put it simply, evil is attractive because it satisfies our desires. When humans are doing good, they are suppressing their desires by not acting on them which is contrary to human nature. 
      Next, in his book, The Condition of the Working Class in England, Friedrich Engels emphasizes how an evil system can perpetuate evil in a population. Engel claims that if an institution or social structure motivates us to treat other human beings as vessels that can be exploited and taken advantage of with no remorse, then that institution is evil. The institution in question is the government of England. The social structure in question is capitalism. His conclusions are drawn from his observations of the interactions between bourgeoisie and proletariat. These observations illustrate that evil is done unto the proletariat because the bourgeoisie benefit from the exploitation. 
        During his stay in London, Engels takes note of the stark difference in living conditions of the rich bourgeoisie and the poor proletariat. Engels highlights the response he gets when he brings up the slum-like living conditions of the proletariat to a bourgeois, “And yet there is a great deal of money made here; good morning, sir” (Engels 250). The response holds an indifferent connotation that shows how the bourgeois does not care what happens to the proletariat —they do not matter to him. The words “good morning, sir” has a slight undertone of contempt as well. The bourgeois is hinting to Engels that their discussion has come to an unsatisfying end because of what Engels has brought up. The whole interaction asserts that the bourgeoisie is not only unaffected by the inequality of classes but also annoyed when people bring that topic to the table. Here, it is illustrated how the bourgeoisie feels no sense of guilt for taking advantage of the proletariat. If there is no profit in store for them, then their time is wasted. This finding is troublesome and displays how the bourgeoisie is impervious to human suffering. It is as if they cannot perceive the universal truth that both them and the proletariat are humans. 
      Next, Engels claims that this inequality of classes is also a societal problem, for society supports this behavior of predation. The government is guilty of double standards when Engels asserts, “The bourgeois may do what he will and the police remain ever polite, adhering strictly to the law, but the proletarian is roughly, brutally treated” (Engels 252). The justice system of England is corrupt because justice is not for everyone but the rich. The government’s double standards have twisted the definition of justice, which is supposed to be applied to everyone without bias. Thus, Engels concludes that a government that turns a blind eye to the sufferings of the proletariat is surely an evil one. Government officials are biased because the people who make up the government are from a bourgeoisie background. It does not benefit them to go against their roots and their own class. This illustrates that evil is done with context. People are more susceptible to evil when the situation permits them to. It does not help that the corrupt officials are themselves the “hands” of justice.  
      However, it is not just the government that is responsible but also the economic system: capitalism. Referring back to his conversation with the bourgeois, money is what makes him tick because he “cannot comprehend that he holds any other relation to the operatives than that of purchase and sale” (Engels 250). Interactions between person to person is but a business transaction. Nothing more and nothing less. Profit is the grease of the machine. Engels further believes that a profit-driven economy is a prescription for treating the working class poorly. If businessmen want to generate profit, they would have to look at numbers because kindness is not going to keep the business going. Being selfless and kind can cost a business or a livelihood. Capitalism is an economic system where people are dehumanized to numbers to generate profit and are taken advantage of with no remorse. The foundations of capitalism assert the importance of profit and the individual rather than “kindness” and “others.” When we fail to see ourselves in others, evil does not seem so evil because it profits us. When we so focused on the results, we fail to focus on the means to obtain such results. Even when we do, we do not want to lose our benefits. By being on the recipient end of profits, we cannot seem to give up our advantageous position.  
      Both Sade and Engels’s theories provide insight into Elizabeth Costello’s analogy between the Holocaust and the factory farming of animals. By combining Sade and Engels’s ideas, we will discuss about three factors that contribute to evil: benefits, context, and human nature. Evil people think in terms of rewards and consequences as well. Do the benefits outweigh the costs? In the case of the sadist, attaining pleasure is more important than worrying about consent. In the case of England, money is more important because capitalism runs the country. In the case of Germany, the country’s glory and power holds precedence even over the German people, much less the Jews. In the case of the animal factories and farms, animals are seen as food and are not even considered to be worthy of morality (Coetzee 89). Evil is attractive when the benefits outweigh the costs, especially when the evildoers reap the benefits and the victims cough up the costs. Evil is even more devious when the evildoers are in high position: this is true for the bourgeoisie, Nazis, and modern day meat eaters: they do not have to abide by any higher law enforcing powers, for they themselves hold those positions. 
      Next, Sade’s and Engels’s arguments include how evil appeals to the mass. In the case of the sadism, evil appeals to all humans by saying that evil is evident in human nature. Sade attempts to persuade the public to accept those with sadistic tastes and recognize that evil is not to be feared but embraced by all. In the case of England, institutions and systems of evil appeal to the people by fostering individualistic and capitalistic values and downplaying the significance of morality. People can renounce their responsibility by blaming it on society or onto the people who call the shots and run the country. In the case of Nazi Germany, Nazism appeals to the German public by evoking patriotic sentiments. For the sake of future generations, the German people must do whatever it takes to attain glory and power, even at the expense of weeding out the non-patriots (Jews).  In the case of meat-eating industry, evil does not necessarily even need to be appealed to the people because meat-eating is seen to be as a matter-of-fact. Costello implies that animals are taken for granted to the extent that people hold feelings of disdain toward animals (Coetzee 105). Evil is attractive when it seems like everyone is doing it or everyone is going to do it. Evil is attractive when the majority buys into it. Then, the need to conform or follow kicks in. People are less likely to question when everyone around them accepts the evil as a matter-of-fact. People do things based on the context. 
	Lastly, as asserted by Sade, acts of evil awaken something inside human nature. Perhaps, Sade is onto something...that there is something within us that makes us susceptible to all these evil desires. However, the word “natural” is not the best word because if the evil desires within ourselves are natural, then evil deeds are excusable. This is commits the fallacy of the appeal to nature: what is natural is the way it has been...the way it has to be. “Natural” is not the correct word to describe desires because it abdicates responsibility from humans to nature, that nature is responsible for everything we do. Instead of “natural,” the word “potential” fits better. Humans have the potential to commit both good and bad. Whichever side seems more important is shaped by rewards and situations. 
      The notion above also ties into Costello claim that just as people are capable of being desensitized, people are also capable being re-sensitized. Therefore, Costello’s antidote to evil is the use of raw emotional imagery that is evident in literature: where the reader learns to be in the main character’s shoes (in another person’s shoes) and regains the ability to empathize with others (Coetzee 80). Moral values and ideas of “goodness” need to appeal to the human heart and soul. The connection between “self” and “others” needs to be rebuilt. Re-sensitization permits the evildoers to be conscious of others’ emotions. This is the first step to realize what they have done.    
      In this paper, I argued that Sade and Engels contribute to Costello’s comparison of a desensitized meat-eating population and a desensitized Nazi Germany. Evil is able to proliferate when the perpetrator has the power, the context, and the motivation to afford it. In conclusion to my arguments above, I ask that people should always have second thoughts about conforming to fit in with society, for society can be wrong. People need to also remember that humans are sentient beings. Indifference signifies a disconnection from people around us and should set off alarms if it happens.








Works Cited
Coetzee, J. M. Elizabeth Costello. Penguin Books, 2004.
Engels, Friedrich. "Barbarous indifference." The Many Faces of Evil, edited by Amelie			Oksenberg Rorty, Routledge, 2001, pp. 248-252
Sade. Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings. Translated by Richard Seaver		and Austryn Wainhouse, Grove Press, 1965.

Leung 6


