Matthew Libunao
CH 202
Critical Response
The Social Contract by Jean-Jacques Rousseau has ideas that fail the character of Ourika in
certain ways. The Social Contract greatly depicts the idea of an individual failing to strive in one’s
society. This is proven in the Social Contract when Rousseau states: “Still, each man's power and
freedom are his main means of self-preservation. How is he to put them under the control of others
without damaging himself…? (Rousseau, 2). Ourika sadly suffers from this fate since she is a confused
child who enters a non-accepting society that will not allow her to fully strive in. This quote in the text
Ourika proves my point: “I would do anything to make her happy; and yet, when I think of her situation,
I cannot find a remedy. Poor Ourika! I see her alone, forever alone in life!" (Duras, 7). This shows that
even her caretaker has no hope of Ourika finding love in her society due to her skin color. In Ourika’s
generation interracial marriage was nearly non-existent so for her to just try and fit in this society and
strive/find love would be nearly impossible sadly.
The Declaration of the Rights of Man (1789) also has idea(s) that fail Ourika. Assuming these
rights apply to both men and women then you can find resemblance within the first article. This article
says: “Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions may be founded only upon
the general good.” (National Assembly, 1). If this was truly correct in Ourika’s lifespan then she may
have lived. If white men say her as equal to white women then they would have given her more of a
chance in her society and she would have flourished as a happy individual, but sadly this wasn’t the
case.
From the art pieces I chose: “The Meeting” by Fragonard. The picture itself has a background
that favors light colors that correlate with the dark green trees that surround it. The title being “The
Meeting” infers that the picture is based off an important meeting in history that may have positive and
negative impacts to a society since the picture is half light colors such as sky blue and white, and half
dark colors such as black and dark green. It is a rather peaceful image since there is a light blue sky that
takes up the majority of the top half of the drawing and flowers that make up a good amount of the
bottom half. It is also rather a mysterious drawing considering the dark and light contrasts of the
drawing that may show hidden meaning that I am unable to understand.
Works Cited
Byron. (n.d.). Ourika - UGA. Ourika. http://slavery.uga.edu/texts/literary_works/ourikaenglish.pdf
Wikimedia Foundation. (2023, September 8). Rococo. Wikipedia.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rococo#/media/File:The_Progress_of_Love_-_The_Meeting_-
_Fragonard_1771-72.jpg
Rouseeau. Internet History Sourcebooks: Modern History, 1763,
legacy.fordham.edu/Halsall/mod/rousseau-soccon.asp.