Matthew Libunao
10/29/2023
CH 202
Week 7 Critical Response
Superficiality is such an interesting and unique topic that shaped Europe’s future.
Privacy was definitely enhanced during this era, so much that if this were a thing in modern
times for certain families and groups, that they would get judged. The way people spoke during
this time was uncanny compared to anything ever seen before. Gender roles were very
apparent in this time of age as well, men and women had to abide by their respective roles or
else they were to be heavily judged. People were to be overly kind and careful with everyone
and gestures were to be ignored at times it felt.
The idea of etiquette being super unique in this era was best supported by the
play/reading of: “The importance of being earnest” by Oscar Wilde. This quote really gives you
an idea of the crazy mannerisms this era had to offer: “My dear fellow, the way you flirt with
Gwendolen is perfectly disgraceful. It is almost as bad as the way Gwendolen flirts with you”
(Wilde, 1). This is particularly strange because it shows that strange interactions can be seen as
rude and unnecessary, when nothing bad in particular seems to be going on. This really shows
how the obsession with etiquette was a big part of this era in Europe and shaped how the
citizens of this country had to act within one another.
Gender roles were just as “important” within this European era and were to be taken
seriously. “The Origin of Species” by Charles Darwin perfectly depicts how men and women
were portrayed during this time. This quote supports that idea: “Man keeps the natives of many
climates in the same country; he seldom exercises each selected character in some peculiar and
fitting manner; he feeds a long and a short beaked pigeon on the same food; he does not
exercise a long-backed or long-legged quadruped in any peculiar manner; he exposes sheep
with long and short wool to the same climate. He does not allow the most vigorous males to
struggle for the females” (Darwin, 2). This supports the ideas said in lecture such as women
having to be submissive and give into whatever the strong men say. It also goes to show the
belief of men doing all the work the required a lot of strength and energy was a “true” belief for
this time.
Privacy was overly valued within this era to an unreasonable extent that is hard to
fathom. “About Psychoanalysis” by Sigmund Freud has a good example of this that I’m trying to
explain. This quote is almost self-explanatory: “This sister soon fell ill and died, while the
patient and her mother were away. The absent ones were hastily recalled, without being told
fully of the painful situation” (Freud, 3). Death of a person you know should not be kept in near
to full privacy if that person is of importance to you. This is a weird and unreasonable situation
to keep hidden information in.
Gender roles were also apparent in artwork of this time and the artwork accurately
represented the role of each gender perfectly. “Reading” by Berthe Morisot was the art piece I
chose to support this idea. Within the art piece, the main theme is that it features a woman to
appears to be reading a book and that’s all. One gender role women were given in this time
were the need to increase piety. I like to imagine that the woman in this picture is reading a
religious book to resemble piety within the role of women.
(works cited page seen below)
Works Cited
“The Importance of Being Earnest.” The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Importance of Being
Earnest, by Oscar Wilde, www.gutenberg.org/files/844/844-h/844-h.htm. Accessed 29 Oct.
2023.
projects, Contributors to Wikimedia. Wikisource, Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., 23 Feb. 2021,
wikisource.org/wiki/Main_Page.
Rasch. “About Psychoanalysis.” Sigmund Freud: 5 Lectures about Psychoanalysis,
www.rasch.org/over.htm. Accessed 29 Oct. 2023.
File:Berthe Morisot Reading.Jpg - Wikipedia,
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Berthe_Morisot_Reading.jpg. Accessed 30 Oct. 2023. 