Pai 


Raymond Pai
For the concert of my choosing, I went to the UNR Woodwind Quintet. The instruments featured in this quintet are the Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, French Horn, and Bassoon. Starting with the tone color of each instrument, the oboe and flute are the ones with the highest melody in comparison to the Bassoon, French Horn, and Clarinet. I first mistaken the oboe as a flute, but with the certain pitch and rhythm that it was playing at, the difference between the two couldn’t be clearer. You could say that the relations of each instrument could be like the violin or viola, but each serves their purpose when playing the pieces. Under my observation, the oboe is pretty much a “penetrating” sound that is easily discernible among other instruments. The flute was at a higher pitch, described as light or carefree sound that is jovial or lighthearted. It is by far the most recognizable instrument because of it. The French horn, in my opinion, was an oddity because it could play as the alto, tenor and bass of a piece, simultaneously even. The pitch of the instrument is not too low, nor too high yet it confuses me of its role. However, it still manages to play well with the other instruments to which the ambiguity didn’t matter too much. The clarinet sounded more similar like the Bassoon, a bass instrument I believe. However, I did notice that for some pieces, the bass portions were shifted as the melody and the supposed soprano or alto instruments simply changed roles. I believe there were two pieces, Yaravi and Frog Went a-Courtin’. I feel like it’s underrated for tenor and bass instruments to not have a certain “lead role” in performances. 
On a personal note, I did not expect to feel myself thinking a lot within the concert. The instruments, as well as the piece they were playing, made me feel that the melody was so harmonic it gave pictures in my mind of how pleasant or sorrowful the instruments could convey. The first piece, especially, was Umoja, and at the start of the music you would find that the piece is very lively, heartwarming even. It’s like a typical Disney movie as they showcase many of their natural settings, followed by a flute or clarinet to give life to that setting. However, as we get into later pieces, such as Fugue from ‘Le Tombeau de Couperin’, it makes imagery about how pleasant and harmonic the piece is that is hard to put into words. What’s also interesting about this piece is that it’s meant for the piano but later be transcribed into a piece for a woodwind quintet. I checked the piano version online, and I must say that the version played by the quintet sounded more beautiful. I think the more I listen to the composition of the quintet the more I begin to realize that my fixation on string instruments and earlier preconceptions of other instruments are invalid as an opinion. Hearing them up close made me realize that all instruments are equal based on the performance of the player and instrument itself. 
With this newfound appreciation, I was humbly impressed by the performers as they each introduced themselves, the instruments they play, and the background of the pieces. I would recommend myself and others to hear more of woodwind instruments and the mesmerizing tone that they give that no other instrument could give. Albeit, many instruments are unique in their own ways, I believe that woodwind instruments are very much atop the most popular choices of instruments there are in terms of the pitch, composition, and rhythm.