Raymond Pai
Dr. Katie Miller
English 102.1056
24 February 2021
Writing Project 1: Letter to an Author
Dear Mr. Guterl,
                I am a Freshman at the University of Nevada, Reno, and I was tasked in reading your article about safe spaces and how, in your views, must be needed to accommodate students to deter them from the everyday “grit” of society. I must say that your piece on this matter was very enlightening to read about, especially in these times of social discourse is high amongst anyone with different viewpoints. My initial thoughts of safe spaces seemed very much lacking in a sense of knowledge and inference, as I couldn’t really much comprehend what these safes spaces are and how it must be a necessity for students on college campuses. But your piece truly brings some of my questions answered, like the very definition of a safe space you choose to strive for and what reasons should be there for them to exist, but it also arises some questions of my own. I am by no means of an expert in safe spaces or even the notion of protecting students that are at a disadvantage, which is why I hope I can write this letter in hopes that you could challenge some different perspectives (one that I would be most in favor for) of safe spaces so that I may further knowledge and build my understanding.[a]
                You explain Safe Spaces must be needed in college campuses under the value of safety, and it would go against the very mission of higher education if there was to be none provided. Opponents [b]of your case would say that having safe spaces would mean challenging another core value of college, which is freedom of speech and academic freedom, both of which are reasons used by Critics of safe space and the dean of the University of Chicago. Critics would also then argue that by adhering to the demands of protesting students would only encourage them to be more despondent and spoiled, most akin to “pampered brats”. But despite it, there is a “comprehensive notion of safety” that should be pushed to every college campus, because the world, in its entirety, “sometimes breathtakingly, violently, terrifyingly precarious for precisely the sorts of students whom we are now actively recruiting”. That would be another reason why students would constantly believe education institutions as staging grounds for protests and unrest, where a removed experienced and serious discourse would be false promises made in the glossy brochures, provided by colleges. The violence that would further incur on campus grounds, and those who claim to be champions of “free speech”, would only be saying things that are defined troubling and backward. That is why the insistent need for faculty and administrators to get involved and accommodate the plea for help that is ever so prevalent is a dire request to create conditions that a once removed experience and serious discourse would remerge to shield against this dystopian world.
                I am curious to see what troubling or backward speech would still pervade amongst college campuses that would warrant the need for a safe space in your article, because what you could perceive as evil, or rather inherently despondent, could only imply that the world you see for students is just inherently evil with its ideals, topics, and norms. That would only suggest that everywhere around the world, except for a safe space, could as well be the dystopian battleground of ideas that are just inherently malevolent with no due consideration for discussion. You also then state that the remove experience and sanctity of discussion should rest to that of safe spaces because that is not provided traditionally in campuses. Your outlook of this contrast most differently with the likes of Judith Shulevitz, who states that safe spaces are not what it seems and it is an impediment for students.[c]
                Shulevitz states that “once you designate some spaces as safe, you imply that the rest are unsafe. It follows that you should be made safer”. This stems that what others perceive in civil discussion of topics, or any other dialogue between people, could very much well mean unsafe by others who would place subjective reasoning, rather than anything objective, thereby making their concerns and as well as yours to a lesser understanding to the greater whole of discussions. Another thing to consider is what safe spaces could mean for students that would be an actual impediment, which is the lack of engagement of different ideals and discussion that could’ve been beneficial, stating: “The confusion is telling, though. it shows that while keeping college-level discussions ‘safe’ may feel good to the hypersensitive, it’s bad for them and for everyone else. People ought to go to college to sharpen their wits and broaden their field of vision. Shield them from unfamiliar ideas, and they’ll be unprepared for the social and intellectual headwinds that will hit them as soon as they step off the campuses whose climates they have so carefully controlled”. [d]Those who make safe spaces as a priority and never come out of one are at a loss of the discussions of people with different perspectives. If they do engage with them, they could get further insight for many perspectives that could build and prepare them for future discussions. That is why Shulevitz thinks that “broadening horizons” are not so much of a means of danger to those ill-equipped for discussion, but an even greater danger if they don’t ever partake in them, because it wouldn’t prepare for their future discussions beyond college life, and it would only make them wallow in fear because of the lack of preparation.
                After reading my reasoning based on Shulevitz’s perspective of safe spaces as a means of impediment. Is there any way your argument could change for the sake of the student’s future means of discussion with others? Do you agree that safe spaces could potentially do more harm than good beyond college life?
 
Sincerely,
Raymond Pai.


 
________________


Works Cited
Guterl, Matthew P. “Students Deserve Safe Spaces.” Inside Higher Ed, Inside Higher Ed, 29 August 2016, https://www.insidehighered.com/views/2016/08/29/students-deserve-safe-spaces-campus-essay
Shulevitz, Judith. “In College and Hiding From Scary Ideas.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 21 March 2015, https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/22/opinion/sunday/judith-shulevitz-hiding-from-scary-ideas.html
 
 
 
                
                
                
 
            


[a]Work on making this sentence as clear and direct as possible since it is serving as your pseudo-thesis
[b]wait, are you summarizing his argument or describing the opposition in this paragraph?
[c]Introducing her as the opposition is one strategy, but you can also introduce her via some common ground she shares with Guterl.
[d]work on quote blending. This quote is far too long for a short piece of writing like this.