Pai 


Raymond Pai
Professor Monique McDade
English 100
4 December 2020
A Majority Renewable Energy for Nevada
Renewable energy is seen as the future of energy generation. With the possibilities of using the natural environment around us, we can harness energy that can fuel our homes, transportation, and industry. With the modern technology of our time, this has become a major topical discussion for whether renewable energy is an efficient source that could help create an infinite supply of energy, without the worry of finite, non-renewable means. Nevada is a special case when it comes to renewable energy. The state just recently made a legislative decision that energy suppliers of electricity must have 50% of their supply from renewable sources. But is a majority renewable energy source beneficial to Nevada? This decision by the Nevada state legislators calls in the question of the possibility of renewable means of whether they could generate a major energy supply that is sustainable enough. This could be a major opportunity if it is, because not only would the state benefit from energy sufficiency and sustainability to a degree, but they could also do it infinitely by using renewable sources, as we don’t exactly run out of it. As always, there are supporters and opposers to this decision. Supporters of the legislation would claim that through the means of renewable energy would provide for a better environment and positive externality on society that a free flow of energy, without the worry of finite of resources, could benefit Nevada and the surrounding population. Opposers would argue that such means, of renewable sources, are not efficient and would do the opposite, where there would be a high amount of cost in construction and maintenance, while having almost no benefits in the long run to replace non-renewable means. However, there is still one major problem that is not getting enough attention. Does Nevada have the greatest potential in energy generation in non-renewable or renewable means? Which method serves best to push Nevada to have more sustainable energy resources? I believe that a majority renewable energy generation is beneficial to Nevada, because Nevada can rely on a significant amount of renewable energy due to its abundance in renewable sources while also being in infinite supply so that the state will become more independent in energy generation 
Nevada has the greatest potential in solar energy and can support the state for prolong use. Nevada has a lot of potential in renewable source, and one of them is a well-known form of renewable energy production and that is solar power. Solar power is one of the discussed and iconic form of renewable energy and Nevada’s surroundings can support it. According to the U.S Energy Information Administration, “A rapid increasing share of Nevada’s electricity generation is from solar resources, particularly several large-scale solar thermal and solar PV Projects. In 2016, utility-scale PV facilities, those larger than 1 megawatt, generated more electricity than the state’s hydroelectric plants for the first time. In 2017, solar PV generated more than geothermal power for the first time. Nevada leads the nation in solar power potential was ranked among the top five states nationally in installed solar electric capacity in 2018 and sixth in 2019 (eia).” Nevada has an increasing amount of solar energy, using large scale solar projects. Those that project more than 1 megawatt are proving to be quite useful when surpassing in both geothermal and hydroelectric sources in the recent years. With the increase of solar project proves that Nevada has a greater potential in sustainability with solar power and the amount it can generate can increase for the coming years. Nevada is also ranked as being among the best states for solar power generation and supply. And most importantly, solar power would be one of the major renewable resources that proves to be of a significant amount in the state, and it will benefit Nevada for being renewable and abundant, while also produced locally would help make Nevada more energy independent.