Pai 


Raymond Pai
MUS 122
3 March 2023
Concert Video Report
        For my chosen live performance for the Concert Video Report, I have chosen the Mark Guiliana Jazz Quartet – Full Session – 9/27/2017. For the Quartet, there is Mark Guiliana on drums, Chris Marcy on Bass,  Fabian Almazan on Piano, and Jason Rigby on Tenor Saxophone. It was recorded live at Paste Studios at September 9th of 2017. The pieces they performed were Inter-are, Jersey, and Our Lady. 
Starting with Inter-Are, it is very jazz like with its syncopated rhythm and off beats with the piano and saxophone players. Then, it shifts which the piano player gets a steady beat and repeats the rhythm and heavy improvisation with the saxophone player that gives off a dissonance between the two as if they were playing in different keys. This makes it that the set coordination of the music and emotions are spread in a spiral of dissonance or simply disharmony that gives off the expressiveness of the piece, even if they aren’t the ones giving off the melody. This piece, however, is certainly not like the upbeat feel of rag time or New Orleans Jazz, but it plays a lot in terms of free style jazz, which relies heavily on improvisation and syncopated beats. Speaking with syncopated beats, the drummer is a huge example of that when there was a time of which the piano player was giving off a steady rhythm, as opposed to the drummer, who started to do syncopation. 
Next, Jersey starts off a bit slow, with only the Bass doing a constant rhythm. However, this is shortly followed by with the piano and saxophone, which created a slow, melodic harmony that was not heavy in its dissonance compared to Inter-Are. It was harmonic, even and they were all playing with harmony, and even their demeanors reflected that greatly as they all moved alongside the music they’re playing with rather slow, smaller movements. A notable observation is when polyphony is most emphasized with piano. However, the tone shifts to a lower one but still retains the rhythmic motion of the previous chorus. However, each chorus reflects upon another and suddenly has a transition of which then deviates heavily from its previous form to a more fast tempo, louder dynamics, and polyrhythm among each players. Then, however, the light at the end of the tunnel is met when it returns to its previous harmonic, slow state as if a storm was weathered. 
Lastly, Our Lady. Seemingly, another piece that is heavily improvisation based, which goes with the other 2. However, it starts more positive, no smooth or melodic like Jersey, or dense like Inter-Are. It’s basically taking a bit from both with a faster pace and at a major scale. Then, it starts to become more distinct with how a faster rhythm is played off the bat and maintained throughout some chorus, or simply been repeated. Dynamically speaking, it’s a mix of both loud and soft when an obvious crescendo is indicated by the piano player, which prompts other performers to do the same. I would like to note that throughout each player, there are moments where they are synced when that crescendo happens, but quietly switches back to different rhythms between each other. Suddenly, I find it odd when the piano player has this distinctiveness that trumps over the saxophone player with a faster tempo at times, whose timbre could be the reason. 
To compare or contrast between each piece, they are very distinct with their tone quality, rhythm, harmony, and melody. Sometimes the form could be repeated or brought back in smaller areas, but mostly goes heavily into another, improvised chorus. However, this can never be spoken the same when form suddenly shifts differently, usually indicative of that tempo, and it goes across all three songs. However, if there are some heavy contrasts to note, then the biggest ones could be how fast they start with, what mood they want to convey through either their melodies, tempo, or their own motion as they play. For example, Inter-Are starts out fast tempo with lower tone, as well as being played by two instruments in sync. It maintains a form that is spread more evenly but emphasized by the rhythm section (piano and drum) to present a greater tone that was made by the previous chorus. Also, they really like playing fast, even if they don’t start out like that at the beginning. Which I do see that in other artists, like the Brecker Brothers when they were live in Barcelona. They both start out slower but quickly shifts to be fast in later parts of the piece. In general, I see that common in modern jazz music or free style jazz.  
Biggest thing to note throughout all the pieces is the energy. Sometimes, the energy starts out small or somber, like the tone and melody reflects it greatly with the saxophone. Then, the piece starts to become more vibrant or ferocious, which is generally reflected to a faster tempo; the tonality because more unpleasant. Surprisingly, Dynamics does little to reflect it as higher dynamics could still be harmonious or dissonant depending on the piece itself. Usually, I find the tempo the greatest factor that determines the energy of the piece. Another thing to note is that the melody is consistent regarding how it first started. Even among the different tempo,  form, rhythm and tone, the melody is consistent through out each elements. Possibly, a great distinction towards jazz as opposed to more structured forms in classical music is that feeling of expressiveness that you wouldn’t find in usual music, hence referred to the “devil’s music” or similar expression because some forms are widely inconsistent and that is reflected on the difference in rhythm or polyrhythm. This is also including syncopation with accented upbeats that extends or compliments a jazz piece with its tonality and timbre with each instrument. 
Overall, I found this particular concert video engaging only because it gives off the feeling what jazz has always been during each era of its reimagining: A huge emphasis on self-expression. This could be reflected in a difference in tempo throughout different forms of a piece, dynamics among each instrument as it’s being played, the melody of which instrument stars in, or simply a solo in between by any instrument.