Have you ever had someone in your life who you used to like, but changed in a drastic way, where you can no longer see the person who they used to be? A person who changed when you haven’t? Perhaps a friend or a family member you used to be on good terms with?

 I broke up with Nikki. I had an almost 4 hour FaceTime call with her. After some careful discussion, I broke it to her that she wasn’t who I knew before. I met her when I was a sophomore at Damonte, and the Nikki I knew then and got attracted to was no longer there. The Nikki I knew from back then didn’t care about what other people thought about her interests. She didn’t seek validation. 

I met Nikki in my sophomore computer science principles class. At first, she seemed like an academic Asian like me, so it was extremely relatable. I made a lot of jokes with her about that. She asked me for help in Math, so I gave her my phone number. That was our very first correspondence. I still remember it, even though she didn’t. To her, the past is a painful place. I want to preface that I don’t want anyone to go back to a painful place. This is one of the main reasons I had to break it with her. I didn’t want her to go back to that place or to the impression I had of her, especially if it was one that would hurt her. 

One of the most clear moments that I remember of her is her saying about how much she wanted to go to art school and even showing me her art. I still have some of her art saved because I thought she had very nice art. She was hesitant about going to art school because it didn’t pay well. I remember telling her that if her passions were that, then she should pursue them regardless of what her family members say about it. This was over 3 years ago. A few days ago I asked her about how her art was going. It turned out that she had given up art. I asked why, and she just said that she lost interest in it. This was totally fine. We all have hobbies we give up on whether it’s art, music, sports, whatever. I gave up on music a while ago, yet my interest in the arts has never waned. I asked her what her hobbies are beyond fashion and makeup, and she said she had none. It became somewhat obvious that the commonalities we once had together were no longer there.

I remember one of the most heartwarming moments between us was when it was near the end of the second year. Throughout that year, I expressed my intense interest in anime to her and to everyone even in my honors English class. I think Matt was in it, but I don't remember clearly if he was on the roster. I was incredibly happy that she was also very interested in anime. She invited me to watch “Weathering with You”, which was a movie I was really excited about. She withdrew her invitation later on due to her parents being against inviting a guy (which I did warn her as to why I had some reservations about it) , but I was still very happy she extended her hand out.

In the present, after I knew she no longer had many activities that I could really get involved in, I changed my approach. If she didn’t have any hobbies that I could get involved in, that just means we could make some hobbies together or maybe I could share some of mine. I  asked her if she would be interested in watching some anime together with me like through a Discord movie night. She told me outright that she would probably fall asleep though. After I displayed some disappointment, she changed her wording in that she would stay awake for the sake of me. I felt like she disrespected my hobbies. I did the same with video games, asking her if she had any interest in them, but it would appear that she didn’t really care about my own hobbies or that she would only tolerate them for the sake of me. At this point, I felt hopeless in the fact that we could do anything that was enjoyable from our interests together. We lacked 
